# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting Minutes

**Date and Time:** Tuesday, November 5, 2024, at 10:30 AM ET  
**Location:** Zoom Meeting ([Recording Link](https://zoom.us/rec/play/BB6UJN12U8_aNmltbxgsVzh_ITCrBD1YxpcJ0sBI-NTZbRWh_fInSz6uTuArChxtDTynVMpm5PnTOW06.ux1oSoKOLwkkONeT?canPlayFromShare=true&from=share_recording_detail&continueMode=true&componentName=rec-play&originRequestUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fzoom.us%2Frec%2Fshare%2FZfMEpuEUHwYz-yW4-Y810w0NV1b9M0RRkkx8afB38XmN09F_ivCuBPgV1e6xixiS.1rxYiEJ28LGrOzWf))

---

## TSC Attendees

- Stoyan Panayotov
- Richard Bair
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Alex Popowycz

## Guests

- Brandon Davenport
- David Boswell
- Sophie Bulloch

## Code of Conduct
As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Agenda

1. **Welcome and Code of Conduct**
2. **Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes**
3. **Transition to Hiero Organization**
   - Repository Transfers
   - Role Definitions and Privileges
   - Maintainers File
4. **Dependency Licensing and OSS License Scanner**
5. **Social Media Banner Pull Request**
6. **Voting Process for TSC Seats**
7. **Community Engagement Activities**
   - Scheduling of Community Calls
   - Upcoming Meetups and Workshops
   - Collaboration with Other Projects
8. **Pathway for New Contributors**

---

## Summary

The Hiero Technical Steering Committee discussed updates on repository transfers, licensing compliance, and a revised community engagement schedule, including upcoming workshops and a November 20th introductory meetup. They also prioritized establishing election criteria for open TSC seats and enhancing contributor pathways through structured outreach and resources.

## Meeting Proceedings

### 1. Welcome and Code of Conduct

- **Hendrik** reminded everyone of the **Code of Conduct** and the **Antitrust Policy**, emphasizing the importance of adhering to these guidelines during the meeting.

### 2. Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes

- **Brandon Davenport** had prepared pull requests (PRs) for the meeting minutes from October 22 and October 29, 2024.
- **Hendrik** had reviewed the minutes from October 22 and moved to approve them.
- **Stoyan Panayotov** seconded the motion.
- The minutes from October 22 were unanimously approved and merged.
- The minutes from October 29 had not been reviewed. **Hendrik** suggested postponing their approval until the next meeting, allowing time for thorough review.

**Action Item:**

- **All members** to review the meeting minutes from October 29 before the next meeting.

### 3. Transition to Hiero Organization

#### Repository Transfers

- **Hendrik** reported that the first repositories had been successfully transferred to the Hiero GitHub organization:
  - **C++ SDK**
  - **Technology Compatibility Kit (TCK) for all SDKs**
- Minor issues were encountered during the transfer, such as:
  - Problems with GitHub Actions.
  - The need to update the `CODEOWNERS` file due to group name changes.
- A **To-Do List** was created to outline the steps required for transferring repositories, including:
  - Creating new groups for maintainers and committers.
  - Naming conventions for these groups.
  - Step-by-step procedures to ensure smooth transfers.

#### Role Definitions and Privileges

- **Hendrik** highlighted the need to define roles and privileges within the Hiero organization.
- He created documentation in the `README` file, detailing the configuration (`config.yaml`) that defines groups and members.
- The documentation includes:
  - An overview of different groups within `config.yaml`.
  - Guidelines for creating new groups for each repository.
  - Distinction between maintainers, committers, and global groups.
- He is awaiting final approval from the DevOps team on the pull request containing this documentation.

**Action Item:**

- **Hendrik** to follow up with the DevOps team for the approval of the role definitions PR.

#### Maintainers File

- Based on the Linux Foundation Decentralized Trust (LFDT) guidelines for common repository structures, a `MAINTAINERS` file is required.
- **Hendrik** created a PR for the `MAINTAINERS` file.
- **Richard Bair** and **Alex Popowycz** provided comments and feedback on the PR.
- **Hendrik** plans to review their feedback and consult with **Ray** or bring it up in an upcoming talk for further clarification.

**Action Items:**

- **Hendrik** to review comments on the `MAINTAINERS` file PR and make necessary adjustments.
- **Hendrik** to consult with **Ray** or discuss in the upcoming talk for additional input.

### 4. Dependency Licensing and OSS License Scanner

- **Hendrik** discussed issues related to Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) and license checks due to the large number of repositories.
- He developed an **Open-Source Software (OSS) License Scanner** capable of scanning:
  - Java
  - Rust
  - Swift
  - Python
  - Go
  - JavaScript
- The scanner identifies all transitive dependencies and outputs their licenses.
- Findings:
  - Most repositories have acceptable licenses after excluding build-time and test dependencies.
  - Some problematic dependencies were identified:
    - **Go Ethereum dependency in the Go SDK**
    - Ethereum-related dependencies in JavaScript and Swift
  - Unknown licenses in some Rust dependencies, such as the Unicode 3 license.
- **Hendrik** is working on resolving these issues by:
  - Investigating unknown licenses.
  - Excluding acceptable licenses like MIT or Apache 2.0 from concerns.
- He aims to have a comprehensive list by next week to determine necessary actions.

**Action Items:**

- **Hendrik** to continue refining the OSS License Scanner results.
- **Hendrik** to address problematic dependencies and unknown licenses.

### 5. Social Media Banner Pull Request

- **Hendrik** created a PR to define a social media banner for Hiero repositories.
- He requested volunteers to review non-technical PRs, such as documentation and imagery.
- **Alex Popowycz** expressed willingness to assist but encountered a GitHub error related to rate limits when attempting to review.
- The error was temporary, and **Alex** was able to access the PR after reloading the page.

**Action Item:**

- **Alex** to review the social media banner PR.
- **Hendrik** to assign similar PRs to interested members for review.

### 6. Voting Process for TSC Seats

- **Richard Bair** raised the issue of establishing a voting process to fill three open seats on the Technical Steering Committee (TSC).
- The Hiero Charter mandates the TSC to create criteria for elections, including:
  - Election dates.
  - Nomination processes.
  - Voting eligibility.
- A significant challenge is defining the "end-user" seat:
  - Determining who qualifies as an end-user.
  - Establishing clear criteria and verification methods.
- **Alex** agreed to discuss this matter with **Diane** in an upcoming meeting.

**Action Items:**

- **Alex** to consult with **Diane** regarding the voting process and end-user definition.
- **TSC Members** to contribute ideas for election criteria and processes.

### 7. Community Engagement Activities

#### Scheduling of Community Calls

- **David Boswell** proposed adjustments to the Hiero Community Call schedule:
  - Move from a weekly to a bi-weekly schedule.
  - Alternate the community calls with internal meetings involving **Diane** and others.
- **Hendrik** and other members agreed that this approach makes sense, especially during the project's initial phases.
- **David** will update the calendar to reflect these changes.

**Action Item:**

- **David** to update the Hiero calendar with the new community call schedule.

#### Upcoming Meetups and Workshops

- **David** announced an introductory online meetup scheduled for **November 20, 2024**:
  - Aimed at providing a high-level overview of Hiero.
  - Members are encouraged to share the event within their networks.
- Plans for future events:
  - Host a deeper, technical, hands-on workshop in Q1 2025.
  - Focus on developing with Hiero SDKs and other code components.
  - Potential for a rolling series of events to maintain engagement.
- **Richard** expressed interest in conducting an overview presentation on Hiero's consensus mechanism:
  - Could be scheduled during a community call time slot.
  - **David** offered assistance in organizing and promoting the event.

**Action Items:**

- **Hendrik** to provide details for the upcoming workshop to **David**.
- **Richard** to coordinate with **David** and **Diane** to schedule the consensus overview presentation.
- **All Members** to promote the November 20 meetup and subsequent events.

#### Collaboration with Other Projects

- **David** suggested collaborating with other Linux Foundation projects to expand Hiero's community:
  - Examples include **Hyperledger Besu**, **Web3j**, and **FireFly**.
- **Hendrik** agreed, noting previous collaborations with **Web3j**.
- **Richard** acknowledged that **FireFly** is already engaging with Hiero.

**Action Item:**

- **Members** to identify and reach out to potential collaborative projects.

### 8. Pathway for New Contributors

- **Alex** inquired about developing a structured outreach and learning path for new contributors:
  - Emphasized the need for progression from basic understanding to active contribution.
  - Suggested curating technical learning alongside governance participation.
- **David** and **Hendrik** agreed on the importance of creating pathways for various contributor personas, including:
  - Developers interested in SDKs.
  - Contributors aiming to work on core components like consensus.
- **Hendrik** highlighted efforts already in place:
  - Creation of "Good First Issues" for Hacktoberfest.
  - Development of a workflow for issue quality control.
  - Desire to offer incentives or giveaways for first-time contributors.
- **David** proposed utilizing recorded workshops as educational resources for onboarding new contributors.

**Action Items:**

- **Hendrik** to continue enhancing the "Good First Issues" workflow.
- **All Members** to consider ways to structure learning paths for different contributor types.
- **David** to integrate workshop recordings into onboarding materials.

---

## Decisions Made

- Approved the meeting minutes from October 22, 2024.
- Agreed to adjust the Hiero Community Call to a bi-weekly schedule, alternating with internal coordination meetings.
- Decided to plan and promote upcoming workshops and technical presentations to engage the community.
- Recognized the need to establish clear criteria for the TSC voting process, particularly for the end-user seat.

## Next Steps and Action Items

1. **Review Meeting Minutes:**
   - **All Members** to review the minutes from October 29, 2024, before the next meeting.

2. **Transition and Documentation:**
   - **Hendrik** to follow up on the role definitions PR with the DevOps team.
   - **Hendrik** to address feedback on the `MAINTAINERS` file PR and consult with relevant parties.

3. **License Compliance:**
   - **Hendrik** to refine the OSS License Scanner results and address any licensing issues.

4. **PR Reviews:**
   - **Alex** to review the social media banner PR.
   - **Hendrik** to assign future non-technical PRs to interested members.

5. **TSC Voting Process:**
   - **Alex** to discuss the voting process and end-user definition with **Diane**.
   - **TSC Members** to contribute to drafting election criteria.

6. **Community Engagement:**
   - **David** to update the calendar with the new community call schedule.
   - **Hendrik** to send workshop details to **David** for planning.
   - **Richard** to coordinate his consensus overview presentation.
   - **All Members** to promote upcoming events and consider collaborative opportunities.

7. **Contributor Pathways:**
   - **Hendrik** to continue work on the "Good First Issues" initiative.
   - **David** to consider integrating educational content into onboarding resources.
   - **All Members** to explore structuring learning paths for new contributors.

---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph