**Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting Minutes**

**Date:** Tuesday, October 29th, 2024
**Time:** 10:30 AM ET
**Location:** Zoom Meeting ([Recording Link](https://zoom.us/rec/play/o38-dxrFbrEv6JXMTzJCzXhcTvgrRw2o-XL18NOXMKlYd5irT1TkYLD8ifWq3oScEWGq6Nu0TlaP9evp.e99-1OrzOZMkvZFr?canPlayFromShare=true&from=share_recording_detail&continueMode=true&componentName=rec-play&originRequestUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fzoom.us%2Frec%2Fshare%2FRK38L7jzDp2qIgDBZxJxSpPw05ZQgaOJSWAGdsEuFylCJQr-Q4ueq8zBxTAshuDk.IkwbVgNMmu0S_Mct))

---

### TSC Attendees

- Richard Bair
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Alex Popowycz

## Guests

- Brandon Davenport
- Diane Mueller
- Jake Hall

---

## Code of Conduct
As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

### **Agenda:**

1. **Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes**
2. **Discussion on Meeting Scheduling and Time Zone Differences**
3. **GitHub Roles and Permissions for Hiero Repositories**
4. **Project Transfer to Hiero: Jake Hall's [GoMint REST API](https://github.com/gomintco/gomint-api)**
5. **Discussion on Higher-Level APIs and SDK Enhancements**
6. **Job Description for Technical Community Architect**
7. **Update on Native Python SDK Development**
8. **Other Business**

---

### **Meeting Summary:**

#### **1. Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes**

- **Status:** Deferred
  - Due to the absence of a quorum at the beginning of the meeting, approval of the previous meeting minutes was deferred to the next meeting.
- **Action Item:**
  - **Brandon Davenport** will prepare pull requests for the meeting minutes from the previous and current meetings for approval at the next meeting.

---

#### **2. Discussion on Meeting Scheduling and Time Zone Differences**

- **Issue:**
  - Confusion arose due to daylight saving time changes not being synchronized across different regions, leading to conflicting meeting times on attendees' calendars.
- **Points Discussed:**
  - Duplicate calendar invites were causing confusion.
  - Some attendees were unsure about the correct meeting time.
  - The Hiero calendar subscription process may be contributing to the issue.
- **Decisions Made:**
  - **Hendrik Ebbers** deleted duplicate calendar invites to prevent future confusion.
- **Action Items:**
  - **Richard Bair** will coordinate with **Blanca** to ensure all TSC members have the correct calendar subscriptions.

---

#### **3. GitHub Roles and Permissions for Hiero Repositories**

- **Context:**
  - Need to define roles and permissions for GitHub repositories within Hiero to streamline project management.
- **Roles Discussed:**
  - **Admin:** Full permissions, including managing repository settings, branch protections, and team access.
    - Proposal: Admin rights to be assigned to TSC.
  - **Maintainer:** Ability to manage repository content without administrative privileges.
    - Maintainers would have the "maintain" role in GitHub.
  - **Committer:** Contributors with write access to repositories.
    - Committers would have the "write" role in GitHub.
  - **Community/Contributor:** General public with read access and ability to open issues and pull requests.
- **Key Points:**
  - Admin rights should not be limited to the Linux Foundation to avoid bottlenecks.
  - Maintainers need sufficient permissions to manage labels, merge pull requests, and handle branch protections.
  - A balance between permissions is necessary to ensure smooth operations without compromising security.
- **Action Items:**
  - **Hendrik Ebbers** will draft detailed documentation outlining the roles and permissions for review at the next meeting.
  - The documentation will include a matrix mapping GitHub roles to Hiero groups.

---

#### **4. Project Transfer to Hiero: Jake Hall's GoMint REST API**

- **Presentation by Jake Hall:**
  - Introduced the **GoMint REST API**, a Hedera REST API built in JavaScript using **NestJS** (TypeScript-based framework).
  - The API facilitates:
    - Account creation (including with aliases).
    - Token creation with metadata handling compliant with HIP-412.
    - Creation of deals (atomic swaps) involving HBAR transfers, fungible and non-fungible tokens.
  - Aimed at reducing overhead for developers by abstracting direct interaction with the Hedera network.
  - **Current Usage:**
    - **GoMusic** uses the API for their NFT marketplace.
    - Artists have accounts created via the API, simplifying onboarding.
- **Discussion Points:**
  - **Architecture Diagrams:**
    - **Richard Bair** and **Alex Popowycz** requested architecture diagrams to better understand the project's components and deployment scenarios.
  - **Sponsors:**
    - **Hendrik Ebbers** is sponsoring the project.
    - Confirmation needed on whether **Ed** is the second sponsor.
  - **Open Source Readiness:**
    - The repository has been made public recently.
    - Documentation and developer setup guides are available.
    - License compliance checks are underway using Snyk.
- **Action Items:**
  - **Jake Hall** will:
    - Create an issue on the Hiero TSC repository with detailed information about the project, including architecture diagrams.
    - Continue working on license compliance and dependency checks.
  - **Hendrik Ebbers** will assist Jake in navigating the project transfer process, including compliance checks and licensing.
  - **Diane Mueller** will coordinate with the Linux Foundation (**Rye** and **David Boswell**) to clarify the process for transferring projects to Hiero Labs.

---

#### **5. Discussion on Higher-Level APIs and SDK Enhancements**

- **Context:**
  - Interest in developing higher-level APIs over existing SDKs to simplify development for enterprise applications.
- **Points Discussed:**
  - **Hendrik Ebbers** has been working on similar higher-level services for the Java SDK.
  - Goal is to create injectable services (e.g., NFT service, account service) for easier interaction with the Hedera network.
  - Alignment with Jake Hall's work on the JavaScript side.
- **Action Items:**
  - **Hendrik Ebbers** will continue developing Java-based services with the intention of proposing them for inclusion in Hiero.
  - Collaboration between **Jake Hall** and **Hendrik Ebbers** to align efforts and share best practices.

---

#### **6. Job Description for Technical Community Architect**

- **Context:**
  - Need to hire a **Technical Community Architect** (formerly referred to as the Release Engineer) to support build and release processes.
- **Discussion Points:**
  - **Diane Mueller** updated the committee on progress made during the Maintainer Summit.
  - Job description has been refined with input from the Linux Foundation (**David Boswell**) and other stakeholders.
  - Clarity is needed on the hiring and interview process, specifically who has the final say in hiring.
- **Action Items:**
  - **Diane Mueller** will:
    - Finalize the job description and share it with the TSC for final feedback.
    - Forward the job description to **Rye** and **David Boswell**, CC'ing **Alex Popowycz** and **Richard Bair**.
  - **Hendrik Ebbers** will discuss with **Rye** and **David Boswell** to understand the hiring process and the TSC's role.
  - **Alex Popowycz** and **Richard Bair** to review and provide any additional feedback on the job description.

---

#### **7. Update on Native Python SDK Development**

- **Context:**
  - **Nadine Wilf** from Hashgraph is developing a native Python SDK for Hedera.
- **Discussion Points:**
  - The SDK can handle account management and token operations natively in Python.
  - Potential interest in bringing this project into Hiero.
  - **Diane Mueller** emphasized the importance for integration with projects like the AnonCreds ACA-Py plugin.
- **Action Items:**
  - **Hendrik Ebbers** will:
    - Meet with **Nadine Wilf** in two weeks to discuss the project and its potential inclusion in Hiero.
    - Provide updates to the TSC after the meeting.
  - **Diane Mueller** will:
    - Gather more information about the project and share it with **Brandon Davenport** and others.

---

#### **8. Other Business**

- **Delegation of Voting Rights:**
  - **Diane Mueller** suggested that **Alex Popowycz** appoint her as an alternate to vote on his behalf when he is unavailable.
  - **Alex Popowycz** agreed.
  - **Action Item:**
    - The matter will be formalized in the next meeting, pending confirmation of the process with the Linux Foundation.

---

### **Decisions Made:**

- **GitHub Roles and Permissions:**
  - **Admin Rights:**
    - Assigned to TSC members and specific DevOps personnel (e.g., **Roger**, **Nathan**).
  - **Maintainers:**
    - Will have the "maintain" role in GitHub.
  - **Committers:**
    - Will have the "write" role in GitHub.
  - **Community/Contributors:**
    - Will have read access and can open issues and pull requests.
- **Project Transfer Process:**
  - **Jake Hall** will proceed with the project transfer by creating an issue with all necessary details.
  - The project will undergo compliance checks and be prepared for inclusion in Hiero, pending TSC approval.
- **Job Description for Technical Community Architect:**
  - The role will focus on technical aspects, particularly supporting build and release processes.
  - The hiring process will involve the TSC, with clarification to be obtained from the Linux Foundation.

---

### **Action Items Recap:**

#### **Hendrik Ebbers**

- Delete duplicate calendar invites to prevent future confusion.
- Draft documentation on GitHub roles and permissions for review.
- Assist **Jake Hall** with the project transfer process.
- Meet with **Nadine Wilf** to discuss the native Python SDK.
- Discuss hiring process with **Rye** and **David Boswell**.

#### **Richard Bair**

- Coordinate with **Blanca** to ensure all TSC members have correct calendar subscriptions.
- Provide feedback on the job description for the Technical Community Architect.

#### **Brandon Davenport**

- Prepare pull requests for meeting minutes from previous and current meetings.

#### **Diane Mueller**

- Finalize the job description and share it with the TSC.
- Clarify the hiring and interview process with the Linux Foundation.
- Gather more information on the native Python SDK and share with the team.
- Coordinate with **Rye** and **David Boswell** regarding the project transfer process.

#### **Jake Hall**

- Create an issue on the Hiero TSC repository with detailed project information and architecture diagrams.
- Continue working on license compliance and dependency checks.
- Share video content demonstrating end-to-end flows of the API.

#### **Alex Popowycz**

- Review and provide feedback on the job description.
- Formalize the delegation of voting rights to **Diane Mueller**.

#### **All TSC Members**

- Review the draft documentation on GitHub roles and permissions when available.
- Review the job description and provide any additional feedback.
- Prepare for the next meeting where pending approvals will be addressed.

---

### **Next Meeting:**

- **Date:** Tuesday, November 5th, 2024
- **Time:** 10:30 AM Eastern Time
- **Agenda Items:**
  - Approval of previous meeting minutes.
  - Review and approve GitHub roles and permissions documentation.
  - Vote on the inclusion of **Jake Hall's** project into Hiero.
  - Update on the Technical Community Architect hiring process.
  - Discussion on the native Python SDK.
  - Any other business.


---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph
