# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting Minutes

**Date:** Tuesday, December 3rd, 2024  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET / 15:00 UTC  
**Location:** Zoom  
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording Link](https://zoom.us/rec/share/wejtMv83DMkhFGUsPTDrQitDPFnFhAHa7C4OlC8EY3bZlrcf9u4rA8q3jlSWyRXz.SNlxaT4JFY4MYrx5)

## TSC Attendees

- Richard Bair
- Leemon Baird
- Alex Popowycz
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Georgi Spasov

## Guests

- Diane Mueller
- Angelina Ceppaluni
- Sophie Bulloch
- Brandon Davenport
- Ajay Jadhav
- Keith Kowal

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Agenda

1. Approval of previous meeting minutes
2. Versioning system for Hiero projects
3. Transfer of third-party projects to Hiero
   - Update on native Python SDK
   - Discussion on project transfer process
4. Inclusion criteria for Hiero projects
   - Presentation by Keith
   - Discussion on dormant vs. deprecated projects
5. Any other business

## Summary

The Technical Steering Committee (TSC) discussed the versioning systems for Hiero projects and agreed to allow individual project maintainers to decide their own versioning schemes. An update was provided on the transfer of third-party projects, specifically focusing on the native Python SDK. The committee deliberated on the criteria for accepting third-party projects into Hiero, emphasizing the importance of active maintainers and community support. A subgroup will be formed to further discuss and define the inclusion criteria for projects moving forward.

## Meeting Notes

### 1. Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes

- **Discussion:**
  - Hendrik proposed that he and Alex review and approve the minutes on GitHub.
- **Action Item:**
  - Hendrik and Alex to review and approve the previous meeting minutes on GitHub.

### 2. Versioning System for Hiero Projects

- **Introduction:**
  - Hendrik raised the topic of standardizing the versioning system for Hiero projects.
  - The discussion was a continuation from the previous week.
- **Discussion Points:**
  - Whether to adopt semantic versioning or date-based versioning.
  - The potential confusion between Hiero and Hedera version numbers.
  - The impact on SDKs and alignment with Hedera's release cycles.
- **Key Contributions:**
  - *Leemon Baird* suggested using different numbering systems for Hiero and Hedera to avoid confusion.
  - *Richard Bair* emphasized that version numbering should be left to individual projects and is not a TSC issue.
  - *Diane Mueller* highlighted the need for clarity in versioning, especially for developers integrating different components.
- **Decision:**
  - The TSC will not impose a standard versioning scheme.
  - Individual project maintainers are free to choose their own versioning systems.
- **Action Item:**
  - Hendrik to discuss versioning preferences with the SDK team for upcoming releases.

### 3. Transfer of Third-Party Projects to Hiero

#### Update on Native Python SDK

- **Introduction:**
  - Hendrik provided an update on the native Python SDK developed by the community.
- **Highlights:**
  - The SDK is entirely Python-based, without dependencies on the Java SDK.
  - Aimed to serve as an entry point for new contributors.
  - Good first issues have been created to facilitate onboarding.
- **References:**
  - Hendrik recommended viewing the previous week's meeting recording for a detailed presentation.
- **Action Item:**
  - TSC members to review the project proposal and transfer documents before the next meeting.

#### Discussion on Project Transfer Process

- **Introduction:**
  - Hendrik mentioned a draft for the transfer document and a project proposal template.
- **Discussion Points:**
  - The need for a formal process for transferring projects to Hiero.
  - Ensuring that transferred projects meet Hiero's standards and guidelines.
- **Outcome:**
  - The TSC agreed to review the documents and continue the discussion in the next meeting.

### 4. Inclusion Criteria for Hiero Projects

#### Presentation by Keith

- **Introduction:**
  - Hendrik invited Keith to share his perspectives on including third-party projects in Hiero.
- **Key Points by Keith:**
  - There are numerous identity-related projects that could be valuable to the Hiero community.
  - Many of these projects are not actively maintained but offer useful code and tools.
  - Keith prefers having all projects within a single GitHub organization for ease of discovery.

#### Discussion on Dormant vs. Deprecated Projects

- **Discussion Points:**
  - **Value of Including Dormant Projects:**
    - Some projects, although not actively maintained, are still valuable for developers.
    - Examples include identity tools and SDKs that can be updated or built upon.
  - **Maintenance Concerns:**
    - Richard emphasized the necessity of having active maintainers for projects.
    - Projects without maintainers may not serve the community effectively.
  - **Criteria for Inclusion:**
    - Projects should have a clear maintainer or maintainer team.
    - The distinction between 'dormant' (inactive but potentially revivable) and 'deprecated' (outdated and replaced) projects.
  - **Project Categories:**
    - 'Graduated' projects with substantial community support.
    - 'Sandbox' projects that are in the early stages or have smaller communities.
- **Key Contributions:**
  - *Richard Bair* advocated for bringing over only those projects with active maintenance.
  - *Diane Mueller* suggested evaluating projects on a case-by-case basis and focusing on building communities around them.
  - *Alex Popowycz* agreed on the importance of having maintainers and clear criteria for inclusion.
- **Decision:**
  - A subgroup will be formed to further discuss and define the inclusion criteria for Hiero projects.
  - The TSC will revisit the topic in a future meeting with a proposal.
- **Action Items:**
  - Hendrik to organize a subgroup meeting.
  - Keith, Richard, Diane, and Alex to participate in the discussion.
  - Interested community members to contact Hendrik to join.

### 5. Any Other Business

- **Community Participation:**
  - Hendrik acknowledged and welcomed the increased attendance from community members.
  - Encouraged continued participation in future meetings.
- **No additional topics were raised.**

## Action Items

- **Hendrik and Alex:**
  - Review and approve the previous meeting minutes on GitHub.
- **All TSC Members:**
  - Review the project transfer documents before the next meeting.
- **Hendrik:**
  - Discuss versioning preferences with the SDK team.
  - Organize a subgroup meeting to discuss project inclusion criteria.
- **Keith, Richard, Diane, Alex:**
  - Participate in the subgroup discussion on project inclusion.


---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph