# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting Minutes

**Date:** Tuesday, October 22, 2024  
**Time:** 10:30 AM ET  
**Location:** Zoom Meeting ([Recording Link](https://zoom.us/rec/play/SIaN2JkjYrf3PO71Z4Brs6Qi7trTvmCaQT3GzztF1chD_ItCj9dtj-xPSqsRCj8iFeA4hUdE7NKROMIk.YmblcbL46_9Owia2?canPlayFromShare=true&from=share_recording_detail&continueMode=true&componentName=rec-play&originRequestUrl=https://zoom.us/rec/share/GoZTNAte26zwWBUz8-UYvZYGCZ7Q59L1rKmRdZNHnZuPLnARZYTfm0tJOPHFp9MV.EvLVE6GXPbZCCk7u))

---

## Attendees:

- [Richard Bair](https://github.com/rbair23)
- [Leemon Baird](https://github.com/lbaird)
- [Hendrik Ebbers](https://github.com/hendrikebbers)
- [Stoyan Panayotov](https://github.com/stoqnkpL)

## Guests
- Diane Mueller
- Brandon Davenport
- Michael Heinrichs
- Mark Blackman
- Sophie
- Simi Hunjan
- Kim Rader
- Kelly Greco

## Code of Conduct
As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Agenda:

1. Welcome and confirmation of quorum
2. Approval of previous meeting minutes
3. Transition status update
4. Vote on Maven and NPM repository names
5. Presentation and vote on HIPs
   - HIP-1049: Add Deleted Flag to ConsensusGetTopicInfo Query
   - HIP: Add gRPC Web Proxy Endpoints to Address Book
6. Discussion on meeting minutes and transcription process
7. Presentation on 2025 events and budget planning
8. Presentation of mascot ideas
9. Any other business

## Materials:
* https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1049
* https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/blob/main/HIP/hip-1046.md
* https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/howto-transfer.md
* https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-wallet-connect/wiki/Working-Group-Meeting-%E2%80%90-July-29th-2024

## Minutes:

### 1. Welcome and Confirmation of Quorum

- **Hendrik Ebbers** called the meeting to order.
- Attendees confirmed their audio and video connections.
- **Richard Bair** reviewed the TSC charter regarding quorum:
  - Quorum requires at least two-thirds of all active voting members.
  - Members who miss three consecutive meetings are suspended from voting.
- **Alex** and **George** have missed three consecutive meetings and are currently suspended.
- Quorum is confirmed with four active voting members present.

### 2. Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes

- **Hendrik Ebbers** proposed approving the minutes from the previous meeting.
- **Richard Bair**, **Stoyan Panayotov**, and **Diane Mueller** approved.
- The minutes were unanimously approved.

### 3. Transition Status Update

**Presented by Hendrik Ebbers**

- Updated the transition metrics with a new column for DCO remediation.
- Several projects have passed DCO checks and are ready for transition.
- Working with the DevOps team to ensure GitHub Actions/tests run on Hiero.
- Aiming to move the Hedera C++ SDK to Hiero this week.
- License reviews are ongoing:
  - Identifying dependencies with GPL licenses or unclear licensing.
  - Using Snyk for dependency and license analysis.
- Discussed the need for better documentation on the process for DCO remediation.

### 4. Vote on Maven and NPM Repository Names

**Proposal:**

- Use `org.hiero` as the group ID for Maven artifacts.
- Use `hiero` as the namespace for NPM packages.

**Discussion:**

- **Richard Bair** questioned if using just `hiero` for NPM is standard practice.
- Confirmed that it's common to use simple names or scoped packages in NPM.
- **Hendrik Ebbers** moved to vote on the proposal.

**Vote:**

- **Hendrik Ebbers**: Approve
- **Richard Bair**: Approve
- **Stoyan Panayotov**: Approve
- **Diane Mueller**: Approve

**Result:** Proposal approved unanimously.

**Follow-up:**

- Later in the meeting, it was discovered that `hiero` is not available on NPM.
- **Richard Bair** secured `hiero-ledger` on NPM as an alternative.
- A second vote was proposed to approve using `hiero-ledger` if `hiero` is unavailable.

**Second Vote:**

- **Hendrik Ebbers**: Approve
- **Richard Bair**: Approve
- **Stoyan Panayotov**: Approve

**Result:** Approved to use `hiero-ledger` on NPM if necessary.

**Action Items:**

- **Richard Bair** to secure the `hiero-ledger` namespace on NPM.
- **Diane Mueller** and **Richard Bair** to request the Linux Foundation to secure the `hiero-ledger.org` domain.

### 5. Presentation and Vote on HIPs

#### a. HIP-1049: Add Deleted Flag to ConsensusGetTopicInfo Query

**Presented by Michael Heinrichs**

- **Objective:** Add a `deleted` flag to the `ConsensusGetTopicInfo` response to indicate if a topic has been deleted.
- **Reasoning:** Currently, there's no way to know if a topic has been deleted, as the response doesn't include this information.
- **Implementation:** Add a boolean `deleted` field to the response message.

**Discussion:**

- No questions or objections were raised.
- Acknowledged as a straightforward and necessary improvement.

**Vote:**

- **Hendrik Ebbers**: Approve
- **Richard Bair**: Approve
- **Stoyan Panayotov**: Approve

**Result:** HIP-1049 approved unanimously.

#### b. HIP: Add gRPC Web Proxy Endpoints to Address Book

**Presented by Mark Blackman**

- **Objective:** Include gRPC Web Proxy endpoints in the network's address book to enable dynamic discovery by clients.
- **Reasoning:** Currently, clients have hardcoded endpoints, which is not ideal.
- **Implementation:** Add new entries to the address book with the necessary information.

**Discussion:**

- **Richard Bair** suggested using the term "gRPC Web Proxy" instead of "gRPC Web Node" for clarity.
- **Mark Blackman** agreed to update the terminology in the HIP.
- No further questions or objections.

**Vote:**

- **Hendrik Ebbers**: Approve
- **Richard Bair**: Approve
- **Stoyan Panayotov**: Approve

**Result:** HIP approved unanimously.

**Action Item:**

- **Mark Blackman** to update the HIP with the new terminology.

### 6. Discussion on Meeting Minutes and Transcription Process

**Presented by Brandon Davenport**

- **Proposal:** Assist with meeting minutes using AI tools and transcripts to produce detailed and accurate records.
- **Experience:** Has managed similar processes for other groups and working groups in the Hedera ecosystem.
- **Workflow Overview:**
  - Use Zoom's transcript feature to capture the meeting.
  - Leverage AI tools to generate initial drafts.
  - Human review for accuracy and clarity.
- **Benefits:**
  - More comprehensive meeting records.
  - Identification of action items and important discussions.
  - Assistance in agenda preparation for future meetings.

**Discussion:**

- **Hendrik Ebbers** and **Diane Mueller** expressed interest.
- Need to ensure access to Zoom transcripts and recordings.
- Discussed potential for automation but agreed human oversight is essential.
- Consensus to trial Brandon's approach for upcoming meetings.

**Action Items:**

- **Brandon Davenport** to coordinate with **Diane Mueller** and **Hendrik Ebbers** to implement the new process.
- **Diane Mueller** to verify access to Zoom recordings and transcripts.

### 7. Presentation on 2025 Events and Budget Planning

**Presented by Diane Mueller**

- **Overview:** Draft budget and event planning for Hiero's presence in 2025.
- **Highlighted Events:**
  - FOSDEM
  - ETHDenver
  - Paris Blockchain Week
  - Web Summit Vancouver
  - Consensus Toronto
  - Devoxx Antwerp
  - Open Source Summits
- **Budget Considerations:**
  - Travel expenses for TSC members.
  - Sponsorship and booth costs where applicable.
  - Collaboration with the Linux Foundation to share resources.
- **Discussion:**
  - **Hendrik Ebbers** suggested including budget for additional conferences where TSC members might present.
  - Emphasized the importance of supporting community members who promote Hiero.
- **Action Item:**
  - **Diane Mueller** to update the budget to include allocations for conference acceptances and share with the TSC for feedback.

### 8. Presentation of Mascot Ideas

**Presented by Hendrik Ebbers**

- **Objective:** Develop a mascot for Hiero and engage the community in the selection process.
- **Mascot Concepts Presented:**
  1. **Viking Panda**
  2. **Superhero Cat**
  3. **Birdie** (implied from discussion)
- **Plan:**
  - Finalize designs for the mascots.
  - Organize a community vote to select the favorite.
- **Feedback:**
  - Positive reactions from attendees.
  - **Diane Mueller** expressed enthusiasm for the Viking Panda.
- **Action Item:**
  - **Hendrik Ebbers** to finalize mascot designs and prepare for community engagement.

### 9. Any Other Business

- No additional topics were raised.

---

## Action Items Summary:

1. **Richard Bair**
   - Secure the `hiero-ledger` namespace on NPM.
   - Request the Linux Foundation to secure the `hiero-ledger.org` domain.

2. **Diane Mueller**
   - Collaborate with Richard Bair on domain acquisition.
   - Update the 2025 events budget proposal and share with the TSC.
   - Verify access to Zoom recordings and transcripts.

3. **Mark Blackman**
   - Update the HIP to use "gRPC Web Proxy" terminology.

4. **Brandon Davenport**
   - Coordinate with Diane Mueller and Hendrik Ebbers to implement the new meeting minutes process.

5. **Hendrik Ebbers**
   - Finalize mascot designs.
   - Prepare for community voting on the mascot.

## Next Meeting:

- **Date:** Tuesday, October 29, 2024
- **Time:** 10:30 AM ET
- **Location:** Zoom Meeting

---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph