# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting Minutes

**Date:** Tuesday, December 10th, 2024\
**Time:** 10:00am ET / 15:00 UTC\
**Zoom Recording Link:** [Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/play/WFdAo25V7AI-Xhe4nK14hvz4Jznzuoo7mMGP5C6-Na4BDkEFcwGHspd6OsXcqZtG08mjpMLFIdz7RXtr.Sd_yM3dvdJ1UAlwp?canPlayFromShare=true\&from=share_recording_detail\&continueMode=true\&componentName=rec-play\&originRequestUrl=https://zoom.us/rec/share/ovjirLt9avr3SBNcTRUuP3HU5lHTnzSs2xPL-ICN0xF64eV6W3HKai3lkyNSmHk.enocl_X_obG8jLYB)

## TSC Attendees

- Richard Bair
- Alex Popowycz
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Georgi Spasov
- Leemon Baird

## Guests

- Sophie Bulloch
- Brandon Davenport
- Angelina Ceppaluni
- Diane Mueller
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Mark Blackman
- Alejandro Dovale

## **Code of Conduct**

As in every meeting, we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## **Agenda**

1. Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes
2. Review of Transfer Documentation for Third-Party Projects
3. Updates from the Linux Foundation Decentralized Trust (LFDT) TAC Meeting
4. Roadmap and Planning for Q1 2025 Releases
5. Creation of Working Groups for Documentation and Release Engineering
6. Additional Topics Raised by Attendees

## **Summary**

The meeting addressed finalizing third-party project transfer documentation, setting a Q1 timeline for Hiero’s first release, and planning working groups for documentation and DevOps. Key outcomes included defining the release plan and increasing community contributions.

## **Meeting Notes**

### **Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes**

- Two pull requests for prior meeting minutes are pending approval.
- Action Item: Alex Popowycz will review the minutes from November 26th.

### **Review of Transfer Documentation for Third-Party Projects**

- Discussion on the state of the migration document for transferring third-party projects to Hiero.
- Proposal to use Hendrik’s project as a prototype for refining the process.
- Consensus: Proceed with Hendrik’s project to identify gaps and finalize the transfer procedure.

### **Updates from the Linux Foundation Decentralized Trust (LFDT) TAC Meeting**

- Diane Mueller and Hendrik Ebbers were elected to the LFDT TAC for 2025.
- TAC supports integrating Hiero projects into LFDT REPS but emphasized minimizing duplicative work for maintainers.
- Next Steps: Ensure projects moving to REPS follow a streamlined process without additional burden on maintainers.

### **Roadmap and Planning for Q1 2025 Releases**

- Diane presented a draft roadmap, emphasizing:
  - The need for a Q1 release of Hiero.
  - Key events such as ETHDenver (February 15th) and LFDT reviews (March 13th).
- Discussion on aligning Hiero’s first release with ETHDenver for greater community impact.
- Agreement to release as early as possible in Q1, with the first “good enough” release targeted for January 13th to allow follow-up refinement before ETHDenver.

### **Creation of Working Groups for Documentation and Release Engineering**

- Proposal to establish two working groups:
  - **Documentation Working Group**: Focused on creating templates, improving SDK documentation, and addressing website content.
  - **Release Engineering Working Group**: Responsible for ensuring consistent release patterns and documentation of release practices.
- Additional Proposal: Establish a Contributor Strategy Working Group to encourage community engagement and grow the maintainer base.

### **Additional Topics Raised by Attendees**

- Richard Bair proposed adding links to upcoming HIPs (1068, 1082, 1084) for review in the next meeting.
- Diane suggested making internal DevOps meetings public to foster transparency and increase collaboration.
- Community Contributions:
  - Sophie is co-authoring an article with Hendrik.
  - Angelina is exploring improvements for Solo’s usability.

## **Action Items**

1. **Documentation Updates**: Adjust the roadmap document to reflect flexible release cadences.
2. **HIP Review**: TSC members will review HIPs 1068, 1082, and 1084 for the next meeting.
3. **Working Groups**: Formalize the structure and mission of the Documentation and Release Engineering working groups.
4. **Transition Updates**: Regular DevOps meetings to expedite project migration.

---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph