# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting Minutes

**Date and Time:** Tuesday, November 12, 2024, at 10:30 AM ET  
**Location:** Zoom Meeting ([Recording Link](https://zoom.us/rec/play/Hkh73bUaXznO-bXgFH_26dQLMmEqvVK5CMc4QpssPUJ6haN7C3iQERCJIsYjE9-YHsNRpORkBLZnmlZc.fJYUBcKf9Zlf4eUT?canPlayFromShare=true&from=share_recording_detail&continueMode=true&componentName=rec-play&originRequestUrl=https://zoom.us/rec/share/8-hC0Yw1LAJZ2jTm-s7ink7ay13SmIQCbWPeUcn2okqoXBR4my87ox4v4ajYz7e2.7sWXR3Ciph2B2AgR))

## **Attendees:**

### TSC Attendees
- Leemon Baird
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Richard Bair
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Alex Popowycz

### Guests
- Sophie Bulloch
- Brandon Davenport

## Code of Conduct
As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## **Agenda:**

1. Welcome and Meeting Protocols
2. Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes
   - https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/38
   - https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/62
3. Project Transition Updates
   - Maintainers and Committers Assignments
   - Publishing Credentials for Maven Central and npmjs
   - Dependency and DCO Checks
4. Discussion on GitHub Runners and Infrastructure
   - Self-Hosted vs. GitHub Runners
   - Licensing and Costs of Security Tools
5. Repository Setup and Security Policies
   - Usage & Payment of Step Security and Codacy
   - Implementation of Security.md
   - OpenSSF Scorecard Integration
6. Meeting Schedule Adjustment
7. Any Other Business
   - Formation of Working Groups
8. Action Items and Next Steps
9. Adjournment

## Meeting Minutes:

**Summary:**

The Hiero Technical Steering Committee discussed several key topics, including the approval of previous meeting minutes, project transition updates, and infrastructure considerations for GitHub runners and security tools. Emphasis was placed on the need for standardized repository setups, particularly concerning security policies and dependency management. The committee agreed to adjust the meeting time and consider forming working groups to address specialized areas more effectively. Action items were assigned to ensure progress on project transitions, security implementations, and administrative adjustments.

### **1. Welcome and Meeting Protocols**

- **Hendrik Ebbers** reminded everyone of the **Code of Conduct** and the **Antitrust Policy** of the Linux Foundation, emphasizing the importance of maintaining professionalism, especially since participants belong to different organizations.

### **2. Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes**

- The minutes from the last two meetings were reviewed.
- **First Set of Minutes:**
  - Already approved by **Hendrik Ebbers** and **Alex Popowycz**.
  - **Leemon Baird** was not present at that meeting; **Richard Baird** was asked for any objections.
  - **Decision:** Minutes approved without objections and ready to be merged.
- **Second Set of Minutes:**
  - **Hendrik** raised a concern about unnecessary personal details in the minutes.
  - He suggested that such details do not add value and should be omitted to maintain professionalism.
  - **Brandon** agreed to remove the sentence and adjust future minutes accordingly.
  - **Decision:** With the agreed amendments, the minutes will be approved and merged after **Hendrik's** final review.

### **3. Project Transition Updates**

- **Hendrik Ebbers** provided an update on the project transition to Hiero:

  **a. Maintainers and Committers Assignments:**

  - No new projects have been moved since the last meeting.
  - Blocking issues identified:
    - Unclear assignments of maintainers and committers for some projects.
    - **Hendrik** created issues and assigned responsible individuals to address these gaps.
    - Follow-up required to ensure assignments are completed.

  **b. Publishing Credentials for Maven Central and npmjs:**

  - **Local Node Project:**
    - Initially believed not to be published anywhere, but it is available on npmjs.
    - Before transferring the **Mirror Node**, they need to secure access to the npmjs account.
  - **Go SDK:**
    - Dependencies have been updated to remove reliance on the **Ethereum** package.
    - **Hendrik** will re-check the Go SDK dependencies after updates from LimeChain.
    - Potential for the Go SDK to be the next project to transfer, as it doesn't require artifact publishing.
  - **Credential Transfer:**
    - Necessary to move publishing credentials for Maven Central and npmjs to the Linux Foundation.
    - **Richard Bair** acknowledged the need to investigate how to transfer these credentials.
    - **Action:** **Richard** to explore the process of transferring the Maven Central and npmjs accounts to Hiero.

  **c. Dependency and DCO Checks:**

  - **Hendrik** and **Wayne** (from LFDT) have been working on cleaning up DCO (Developer Certificate of Origin) issues.
  - Most problematic commits have been resolved, except for a few with untraceable authors (e.g., commits from "localhost@ubuntu").
  - Remaining issues have been escalated to **Diane** for further action.
  - Emphasis on ensuring all dependencies are compliant and do not introduce licensing issues.

  **d. Documentation and Guidance:**

  - A step-by-step guide for project transition has been created, available in the `[hiero-ledger/hiero](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero)` repository.
  - The guide currently lacks information on publishing artifacts; this will be added once processes are established.
  - **Hendrik** is documenting the roles and permissions within repositories to standardize practices.

### **4. Discussion on GitHub Runners and Infrastructure**

- **Hendrik** raised concerns about GitHub apps and plugins:

  **a. Security Tools Licensing:**

  - Current security tools like **Step Security** and **Codacy** require enterprise licenses for features like self-hosted runners.
  - These tools are essential for maintaining the security standards of Hiero projects.
  - The enterprise licenses are costly (potentially around $1,000 per month).
  - **Hendrik** suggested that funding might need to be secured through a grant to the LF (Linux Foundation) to cover these expenses.

  **b. Self-Hosted vs. GitHub Runners:**

  - **Richard** explained that self-hosted runners are used primarily due to cost efficiency and capacity needs, especially for complex builds like the **Services** repository.
  - **Alex** questioned whether LF has preferred practices or alternatives.
  - **Hendrik** agreed to discuss with **Nathan** to explore options, including the possibility of using GitHub runners for less complex projects during the transition.

  **c. Action Items:**

  - **Hendrik** to consult with **Nathan** regarding the feasibility of using GitHub runners for certain projects and to gather more information on potential scenarios.
  - **Richard** to continue investigating the transfer of the Maven Central account.

### **5. Repository Setup and Security Policies**

- **Alex** brought up the need for standardizing repository setups, specifically:

  **a. Security Notification Policies:**

  - Noted that some Hiero repositories lack a `SECURITY.md` file, which outlines procedures for reporting and handling security vulnerabilities.
  - Emphasized the importance of having clear security policies to manage notifications and escalations effectively.

  **b. Implementation Plan:**

  - **Hendrik** acknowledged the issue and mentioned an existing GitHub issue to address it.
  - Waiting for a finalized template from LFTT to standardize the `SECURITY.md` across all repositories.
  - Plan to place the `SECURITY.md` in the `.github` directory so it applies globally to all repositories without individual files.

  **c. OpenSSF Scorecard Integration:**

  - **Hendrik** discussed the Open Source Security Foundation's (OpenSSF) Scorecard, a tool for assessing security practices in repositories.
  - Implementing the scorecard involves setting up a GitHub action that runs security checks.
  - Recognized that while valuable, this integration might be postponed until after the project transition is complete due to current workload.

  **d. Action Items:**

  - **Hendrik** to follow up with **Ry** on the status of the `SECURITY.md` template.
  - Decision to prioritize the project transition and address security integrations afterward.

### **6. Meeting Schedule Adjustment**

- **Richard Bair** proposed moving the weekly TSC meeting half an hour earlier to accommodate overlapping commitments.
- **All attendees** agreed to the new time.
- **Action:** **Hendrik** will contact **David Bothwell** to adjust the meeting schedule starting from the next session.
- **Note:** **Hendrik** will inform all members via the TSC communication channel once the change is confirmed.

### **7. Any Other Business**

- **Formation of Working Groups:**

  - **Richard** suggested creating working groups for specialized topics, such as CI/CD processes and security policies.
  - This approach would involve relevant contributors and experts, improving efficiency and bandwidth.
  - **Hendrik** supported the idea but noted that such decisions should be formally made during meetings.
  - **Action:** Consider establishing working groups for ongoing and future initiatives.

#### **8. Action Items and Next Steps**

- **Brandon Davenport:**
  - Remove unnecessary personal details from the previous meeting minutes.
  - Adjust future minutes to exclude non-essential information.

- **Hendrik Ebbers:**
  - Follow up on maintainers and committers assignments for project transitions.
  - Consult with **Nathan** about GitHub runners and security tools licensing.
  - Follow up with **Wayne** on the `SECURITY.md` template.
  - Coordinate with **David Bothwell** to adjust the meeting schedule.
  - Document roles, permissions, and best practices for repositories.

- **Richard Bair:**
  - Investigate the process for transferring the Maven Central account to Hiero.
  - Continue to manage the npmjs account transfer and coordinate with **Rye**.

- **Alex Popowycz:**
  - Provide input on dependency management and repository best practices.
  - Assist in reviewing security policies once the `SECURITY.md` template is available.

- **All Members:**
  - Consider the formation of working groups for specialized topics.
  - Review and comply with the Code of Conduct and Antitrust Policy in all collaborations.

---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph