## TSC Attendees

- Richard Bair
- Leemon Baird
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Stoyan Panayotov

## Guests

- Diane Müller
- Mark Blackman
- Simi Hunjan
- Samson Goddy
- Brandon Davenport

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- Define the final name of our GitHub org
- Update on project migration (see https://github.com/LFDT-Hiero/hiero/blob/main/transition.md)
- Any other business (AOB)

## Minutes

- We were unable to use hiero-project. This name on github had been taken. Instead, we reserved two project names: hiero-community and hiero-ledger.
  Proposed: We adopt hiero-ledger as the name of the organization instead of lfdt-heiro
  The motion passed unanimously
- hiero-sdk-cpp will be moved ASAP
- Reviewed DCO user names and contact info to work on DCO for other repos.
  The document was updated to mark which rows are “covered” by virtue of those contributions being from LaunchBadge, LimeChain, Hedera, or Hashgraph
- Update given for Hacktober fest
  Several PR’s submitted in the SDKs, and one also in the Consensus Node repository
- Discussion about https://thrivehedera.com/ to discuss ways we can work together, such as having contributors to the code projects to receive rewards from thrivehedera.
- How do we handle changes to the hiero website, governance, and other repos?
  Diane asks for Diane and Samson and Richard to be part of the review process.
- Ask for more diversity in the “heros” images
- Point of order: At the beginning of this call we should start with the code of conduct.
- Proposal for agenda item next week: the process by which people are able to bring projects to Hiero
- Brief review of the gRPC Web HIP. We recognize the need to have a formal process for how to handle this. We recognize:
- We need to have a process by which HIPs can be circulated ahead of time. It is too difficult to review a HIP in detail live in the meeting when seeing it for the first time
HIPs may also be discussed before/after approval at community calls


