# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:**
The TSC focused on settling a new-repo name for the Hashgraph Online standards SDK, outlining a six-to-nine-month dual-publishing plan for SDK namespace migration, and agreeing to move all future formal votes to GitHub issues so members can vote asynchronously.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero Technical Steering Committee (Linux Foundation DLT)
**Date:** 17 June 2025
**Time:** 10 a.m. ET (≈14:00 UTC)
**Recording:** [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/rec/share/Dt-4tkagqpbOPQMtOHsK4QWkswtrpFhk6_zY8B16_04fPWrhWo4RsL39u2ZjAER8.ZlQxnUntvmL8kmK5)

## TSC AttendeesAdd comment

- Alex Popowycz
- Leemon Baird
- Michael Kantor
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn
- Richard Bair

## Guests

- Brandon Davenport
- Andrew Brandt
- Anuj Saxena
- Diane Mueller
- Georgi Lazarov
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Keith Kowal
- Kiran Pachhai
- May Chan
- Pavel Borisov
- Rafael
- Rob Linton
- Roger Barker
- Jake Hall
- Robert Walworth
- Sophie Bulloch
- Ty Smith
- Tyler

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- New name for Hashgraph-Online repository under Hiero
- Dual publishing and namespace change for SDKs (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/sdk-collaboration-hub/issues/29)
- How should the TSC do asynchronous voting
- Discussion for timeline of election for the missing TSC seat
- Any other business (AOB)

## Meeting Summary

- **Hashgraph Online SDK repository name**

  - Preferred: **`hiero-hashgraph-online-standards-sdk-js`**
  - Rationale: reflects SDK (not protocol), preserves existing brand recognition.
  - Motion received ≥5 yes votes but lacked quorum (needs 6) → to be finalized via GitHub issue.
  - Condition: LF legal must confirm no trademark conflict.

- **SDK namespace migration**

  - JavaScript & Rust SDKs will be *dual-published* under both `@hedera/...` and `@hiero/...`; Java SDK will likely hard-cut to `io.hiero`.
  - Proposed window: **6–9 months** of dual publishing; exact dates to come from Roger Barker/Robert Walworth.
  - Old packages remain available indefinitely, but no new releases after the cut-over.

- **Asynchronous voting**

  - All formal TSC decisions will move to **GitHub issues with vote checkboxes**.
  - Issue must remain open at least **7 days**; link emailed to the mailing list.
  - Diane Mueller & Jessica Gonzalez will draft an LF-compliant FAQ covering voter eligibility & record-keeping.
  - Alex created an initial “TSC Asynchronous Voting” issue as a template.

- **Documentation & branding consistency**

  - May Chan (Docs WG) requested a recommended—but optional—style/template repo plus brand assets to unify look-and-feel across Hiero sub-projects.
  - Full discussion deferred to next meeting.

- **Hedera Council update**

  - Daniela’s in-person briefing highlighted Hiero’s open-source transition; Council feedback was positive, affirming LF approach.

## Key Decisions

| # | Decision                                                          | Outcome                                                            |
| - | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1 | Adopt `hiero-hashgraph-online-standards-sdk-js` as repository name | *Conditional approval* pending LF legal & asynchronous vote quorum |
| 2 | Use GitHub-issue polling for all future TSC votes                 | **Approved** (procedural issue to be merged)                       |
| 3 | SDK dual-publish strategy & timeline                              | Direction agreed; final dates to be proposed                       |

---

*Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir. of Comms, Hgraph*  
