# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** No votes this week. The TSC aligned on enabling **asynchronous voting with GitVote**, agreed to **trial GitHub Wikis** for community meeting agendas, and discussed a new **Identity Collaboration Hub** proposal to consolidate identity efforts. Hacktoberfest produced ~100 good-first-issue contributions across multiple repos.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** November 11, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** https://zoom.us/rec/share/3c015sI1z8P7f-kZyM43n555o5onC30bV9aE8-_xbyE1MzS6ZA6BMOvrcUDr7XTa.I9-tiifTGLSaenBH

---

## TSC Attendees

- Hendrik Ebbers
- Michael Kantor
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Georgi Lazarov

## Guests

- Jessica Gonzalez
- Michael Garber
- May Chan
- Joseph Sinclair
- Diane Mueller
- Keith Kowal
- Alexander Shenshin
- Andrew Brandt.)
- Roger Barker
- Sophie Bulloch

---

## Agenda Items

- Approve previous minutes (still pending merge/approval)
- HIPs ‚Äî status review via the HIP Tracker board (no items requiring a TSC vote this week).
- Any other business (AOB)

Additional topics raised during AOB:
- Enable GitHub-based **asynchronous voting** (GitVote) for HIP PRs and similar decisions.
- **Identity Collaboration Hub** proposal (reframing from ‚ÄúIdentity Workbench‚Äù).
- **Governance repo** meeting agendas workflow ‚Äî trial **GitHub Wikis** to reduce PR overhead.
- **Hacktoberfest outcomes** and **good-first-issue** best practices.
- Contributor **training** needs (DCO/sign-off, repo workflows, Hedera/Hiero domain basics).

## Guests

As every Hiero meeting the TSC meeting is a public meeting and everybody can attend it.  
You can find all the information about the TSC meetings and all other Hiero meetings in our [public calender](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meetings/hiero).

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **Minutes:** Prior week‚Äôs minutes noted as not yet approved/merged; to be handled in the coming days.
- **HIPs:** Several HIPs are in creation; **no votes required** this week. Community was encouraged to pre-review the HIP referenced on the call ahead of its TSC presentation.
- **Async voting with GitVote:**  
  - Jessica added a GitVote configuration enabling **TSC team voting** on PRs with **3-day duration** and **50% pass threshold**; multiple profiles can be defined per team.  
  - Voting happens via reactions (üëç / üëé / üëÄ) and is restricted to allowed voters defined in `.gitvote.yml`.
  - Jessica will **walk through GitVote** usage in next Thursday‚Äôs community call (recorded).
- **Identity Collaboration Hub:**  
  - Aim: a **single, discoverable hub** for identity work (docs, designs, some code, starter tools) while **keeping SDK repos separate** (due to dependency usage).  
  - Naming to align with ‚ÄúHub‚Äù used elsewhere (e.g., SDK Hub) for consistency.  
  - Keith will **withdraw and rewrite** the proposal to ‚ÄúIdentity Collaboration Hub‚Äù (with ‚ÄúWorkbench‚Äù as a sub-tool) and bring it back next week for a vote.
- **Community meetings & agendas:**  
  - Two community calls Thursday (Identity; Data Output/Mirror Node).  
  - A **project-meetings** area exists in the governance repo, but PR-based edits felt heavy for agendas.  
  - Group agreed to **trial GitHub Wikis** in the governance repo, with edit rights restricted to teams with write access; maintain **least-privilege** access.
- **Hacktoberfest outcomes:**  
  - ~**100 ‚Äúgood first issues‚Äù** solved (‚âà92 merged + 7 in review at the time discussed).  
  - Multiple repeat contributors; at least one new **committer** emerged from October contributions (Python SDK).  
  - Contributions spanned **Python SDK**, **Consensus Node**, **Mirror Node**, and **website**.  
  - **What worked:** clear issue templates (description, proposed solution, checklist), example code, links to related items, and‚Äîsurprisingly‚Äî**emojis** improved uptake.  
  - A **template** for good-first-issues lives in the org‚Äôs `.github` repo and will be **synced** across repos.
- **Training needs:**  
  - Plan to create **short video guides** (creating PRs, DCO/sign-off, how to review/create good-first-issues).  
  - For newcomers, provide **domain primers** (transactions vs. consensus files, what to generate, how to run examples) to lower contribution friction.

---

## Presentations (optional)

- **Hacktoberfest Results & Learnings** ‚Äî overview deck by Hendrik Ebbers summarizing contribution metrics, examples of successful good-first-issues, and proposed improvements to templates and training.

---

## Key Decisions

- **Trial GitHub Wikis** for community meeting agendas in the governance repo (restricted editing to teams with write access).  
- **Proceed with GitVote** configuration for **asynchronous TSC votes** on eligible PRs (e.g., HIPs) to avoid delays when quorum is not available.
- **Reframe identity proposal** to **Identity Collaboration Hub** (keep SDKs in their own repos; ‚ÄúWorkbench‚Äù can live under the Hub).

**Action Items**
- **Hendrik/TSC** ‚Äî Review and merge **previous minutes**.
- **All TSC** ‚Äî **Pre-review the HIP referenced on the call**
- **Jessica** ‚Äî Deliver **GitVote walkthrough** during next Thursday‚Äôs community call (recorded).  
- **Keith (with Diane)** ‚Äî **Rewrite** Identity Collaboration Hub proposal and resubmit for next week‚Äôs TSC discussion/vote.  
- **Jessica / Roger / Andrew** ‚Äî **Enable & configure GitHub Wiki** on the governance repo; verify edit permissions for relevant teams.  
- **Roger** ‚Äî Maintain the **good-first-issue template** in the org-level `.github` repo and **sync** to sub-repos.  
- **Hendrik + volunteers (incl. Jad, Sophie, others)** ‚Äî Draft **short training videos** and **domain primers** to support new contributors.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Product, Hgraph
