# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** Hiero’s TSC reviewed updates on project transitions and upcoming elections. A major topic was a proposal to bring the Hashgraph Online Standards SDK into the Hiero project. The TSC welcomed the idea but postponed a vote to allow time for additional governance and naming discussions.

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** April 8, 2025
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/4HhJP-7kBaA4YUXFSMOl5TnKGA2z_YX8zqH9dcxnUDIN7zGIkcbo6A0q12sXY6uc.OfQ5KblzwflrJFcH)


## TSC Members
- Alex Popowycz
- Leemon Baird
- Richard Bair
- Hendrik Ebbers

## Guests
- Brandon Davenport
- Michael Kantor
- Andrew Brandt
- Diane Mueller
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Keith Kowal
- Louis Fourie
- Pavel Borsov
- Rob Walworth
- Robert Linton
- Roger Barker
- Sophie Bulloch
- Sumabala Nair

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- Update on project transition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/community-transition.md)
- Update on election process (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/elections.md & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/ADOPTERS.md)
- Update on project prosposals (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22project%20proposal%22)
- Presentation of hashgraph-online/standards-sdk as possible Hiero project (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/109)
- Any other business (AOB)

## Meeting Summary

- **Approval of Previous Minutes**
  Multiple pull requests are pending approval, including one from January. TSC members are encouraged to review and merge.

- **Project Transition Updates**
  All Hedera-originated projects except for "Solo" have been successfully transferred. Solo’s transfer is targeted within the next 1–2 weeks, per Andrew Brandt.

- **Community Project Onboarding**
  Several community projects have been onboarded, and more proposals are in queue. The TSC continues to review new project proposals weekly.

- **Election Process for New TSC Seats**
  Two new seats will be elected in May:
  - **Contributor Seat**: For those who have contributed merged code.
  - **End User Seat**: For builders using Hiero tools, e.g., via the Adopters list.
  Nominations are open, and more participation is encouraged.

- **Promotional Clip Suggestion**
  Richard Bair suggested clipping and sharing the election pitch on social platforms to raise awareness.

- **Project Proposal: Hashgraph Online Standards SDK**
  Michael Kantor presented the SDK and proposed onboarding into Hiero.
  - SDK encapsulates open standards into an easy-to-use JavaScript library.
  - Built by a consortium of retail orgs (e.g., HashPack, Badge, HGraph).
  - Long-term goal: add multi-language support (e.g., Python, Java).
  - Current SDK and standards governance is handled via Hashgraph Online DAO using tokens and on-chain voting in the Marshall Islands.

- **Discussion: Governance and Integration**
  - Richard, Hendrik, and others raised concerns about the separation of standards governance and project code maintenance if it enters Hiero.
  - Keith Kowal and others highlighted various points as to why HashGraph Online SDK would be a good addition to Hiero, offering additional perspectives.
  - Suggestion to clarify the role of application-layer standards and possibly rework or sunset the application HIP process.
  - Agreement that the SDK aligns with Hiro’s mission and could serve community needs, but integration needs governance clarity.
  - Concerns were raised around potential naming confusion (e.g., “standards SDK”) if brought under Hiero.

- **Next Steps**
  - Vote on onboarding postponed due to lack of quorum and need for further discussion.
  - TSC to revisit SDK onboarding and naming decision in next week’s meeting.

## Presentations

**Standards SDK by Hashgraph Online**
Presenter: Michael Kantor
- Overview of consortium, current standards, SDK implementation, and usage.
- Described real-world traction (28M transactions) and ecosystem adoption.
- Responded to technical and governance questions from TSC members.

## Action Items

| Action | Owner | Due Date |
|-------|-------|----------|
| Review January meeting minutes PR | TSC | Before next meeting |
| Share election nomination clip with marketing | Jessica Gonzalez | ASAP |
| Finalize governance discussion for SDK integration | TSC | April 15 |
| Decide on naming for SDK under Hiero repo | TSC | April 15 |
| Review new proposal linked by Hendrik for next week | TSC Members | Before next TSC call |

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
