# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting Minutes

**Date:** Tuesday, February 4, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET / 15:00 UTC  
**Zoom Recording:** [Watch here](https://zoom.us/rec/share/mXfMflNSolx9_gf_u9tsAy98JPz173W27W3OPzbLiyY3hFw3il20h77sOUi_DtMu.10XVRqYMqJknwTkU)

## TSC Attendees
- Richard Bair
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Georgi Spasov
- Leemon Baird

## Guests
- Diane Mueller
- Ivan Ivanov
- Rob Walworth
- Keith Kowal
- Mark Blackman
- Brandon Davenport
- Ivaylo Garnev
- Simi Hunjan
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Nikola Naydenov
- Sophie Bulloch
- Robert Linton
- Krystal L
- Neeharika Sompalli

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).


## Agenda
- **Approve previous minutes** ([PR #95](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/95) and [PR #97](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/97))
- **Update on project transition** ([transition.md](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md))
- **Review of HIP-1068** ([HIP-1068 PR](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1068))
- **Review of HIP-1082** ([HIP-1082 PR](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1082))
- **Review of HIP-1064** ([HIP-1064 Details](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1064))
- **Update on election process**
- **Update and discussion on release schedule and roadmap**
- **SDK Design docs repo** (Simi / Rob will present that idea)
- **Open discussion:** What type of projects do we want to have under the Hiero org and what criteria should be required for a project to join Hiero ([Discussion #41](https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/discussions/41))
- **Move Did-SDK-Python to Hiero** ([Issue #81](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/81))
- **Any other business (AOB)**

### Summary
The meeting opened with the approval of previous minutes and a review of the current project transition status, including the successful migration of most SDKs to Hiero—with the exception of a licensing issue in the Rust SDK that requires further guidance. The committee discussed several HIPS proposals, notably clarifying the technical definition of “active nodes” in a rewards proposal, and deferred a final vote pending further input. A detailed update on the TSC election process was provided, outlining various seat categories (Maintainer, Contributor, End User, and TSC seats), eligibility criteria, and proposed timelines. Extensive discussion addressed potential adjustments to voting mechanisms—including ranked and possibly on-chain voting—and the challenges of establishing a robust nomination process ahead of major community events. Finally, the committee unanimously voted to transition the Python DID SDK project to Hiero, subject to a follow-up issue to make the DID namespace configurable.

---

## Detailed Meeting Minutes

### 1. Approval of Previous Minutes
 
  - The minutes from the last two meetings (last week and the week before) were circulated for approval.  
  - A special thanks was extended to Brandon for preparing detailed minutes with enhanced tooling (including action items, summaries, and agenda integration) that streamline the meeting process.

### 2. Project Transition Update
- **Migration Status:**  
  - All SDKs (excluding the Rust SDK) have now been migrated to Hiero.  
  - An outstanding issue was noted with the Rust SDK regarding a dependency with licensing concerns. The current plan is to consult with the Linux Foundation for guidance and to create a high-priority issue to resolve this in the future.

- **Consensus Service & Repository Changes:**  
  - The consensus service and associated repositories have been successfully transferred from Hashgraph to Hiero.  
  - The community-led **Hiero Python SDK** project has been released on PyPi.  
  - Notably, a community contributor has been nominated and approved as the first committer from the community for a Hiero project, marking an important milestone.

- **Discussion on Additional Projects:**  
  - **Transaction Tool:** Simi Hunjan raised the question of including the transaction tool in the transition list.  
  - Richard Bair suggested that a review of the guidelines for adding new projects to Hiero should precede any decision, noting that maturity and suitability for public release need further evaluation.

### 3. Discussion on HIPS Proposals
- **Overview of Proposals:**  
  - Three HIPS topics were on the list: sponsoring fees, allowing the setting of an EVM address, and a proposal on daily rewards for active nodes.
  - The sponsoring fees and EVM address topics were set aside for further discussion in future meetings.

- **Daily Rewards for Active Nodes:**  
  - The proposal under discussion included a definition for active nodes that incorrectly equated “successfully generating an event” with “creating a judge” in the Hashgraph algorithm.
  - **Clarification:**  
    - Leemon Baird pointed out that successfully generating an event does not equate to having a judge in a round.
    - The committee agreed that the problematic sub-bullet should be removed.
  - **Action Item:**  
    - Mark Blackman committed to resolving the comments and clarifying the proposal during the week, aiming for a clean vote in the next meeting.
  - **Further Consideration:**  
    - With key members (such as Agax and Riemann) having been absent during earlier discussions, the committee agreed to postpone the final vote on this proposal until more complete input is available.

### 4. Update on TSC Election Process and Nomination Procedures
- **Presentation of Election Process PR:**  
  - Richard Bair presented a pull request outlining the TSC election process. Key points included:
    - **Seat Categories:**  
      - **Leemon Seat:** Non-electable (occupied by Leemon Baird).  
      - **Hedera Seat:** Initially appointed by Hedera until September 1, 2027, after which it reverts to a TSC seat.  
      - **Maintainer Seats:** Three seats; initially open to all maintainers with a view to restricting votes later to maintainers from graduated projects.  
      - **Contributor Seat:** Open to individuals with merged pull requests in the past year or those holding a formal role in a Hiero project.  
      - **End User Seat:** Intended for entities actively building on Hiero, though its criteria require further refinement to avoid potential abuse (e.g., multiple GitHub accounts).  
      - **TSC Seats:** Two seats filled by TSC members.
    - **Election Terms and Timeline:**  
      - TSC members serve two-year terms.  
      - For the startup period, the seats are divided into two cohorts (with different compositions) to ensure continuity.  
      - A nomination and voting timeline was proposed, targeting key community events such as East Denver and Hedera Con to maximize participation.
    - **Voting Mechanisms:**  
      - A ranked voting system (similar to the Linux Foundation’s process) is intended.  
      - There was also discussion about exploring on-chain voting solutions (e.g., using smart contracts or platforms like Opa Vote) to enhance transparency.
  
- **Discussion Points:**  
  - **Maintainer Seat:**  
    - Hendrik suggested initially allowing all maintainers to vote—with the potential for later restriction to maintainers of graduated projects.  
  - **Contributor & End User Seats:**  
    - Diane Mueller expressed concerns over self-selection for the end user seat and the potential for abuse. The committee discussed referencing an “adopters.md” file to establish eligibility and possibly creating an end user working group.
  - **Timeline and Engagement:**  
    - The committee discussed the importance of a robust nomination process and engagement strategy ahead of the upcoming conferences.  
    - Brandon Davenport highlighted the need for clear calls to action (e.g., a dedicated landing page, printed materials at conferences) to drive participation.
  - **Action Items:**  
    - Richard Bair will update the election process PR based on feedback.  
    - The committee will finalize nomination timelines and voting procedures with possible further outreach to Linux Foundation governance experts.

### 5. Transition of Python DID SDK to Hiero
- **Discussion and Vote:**  
  - The committee discussed the migration of the Python DID SDK project to Hiero.  
  - A vote was called regarding the transition.
  - **Key Stipulation:** An issue must be created upon transfer to make the DID namespace configurable rather than hard-coded (currently set to “hedera”).
- **Outcome:**  
  - The transfer was approved unanimously (affirmative votes from Riemann, Georgi, Richard, and Leemon).  
  - The project will be moved to Hiero, with the namespace configurability issue tracked separately.

### 6. Open Q&A and Additional Business
- **Project-Level Voting for Contributors/Committers:**  
  - Ivan Ivanov inquired about whether voting for new contributors or committers is possible on a per-project basis.
  - **Response:**  
    - Hendrik explained that each project manages its maintainers and committers via a governance repository (using a config YAML file).  
    - New committers are added through pull requests that are reviewed and merged by existing maintainers.
    - Richard Bair confirmed that it is not the responsibility of the TSC to vote on individual project appointments.
- **Closing Remarks:**  
  - The meeting concluded with a reminder of an upcoming community meeting on Thursday and the next TSC meeting scheduled for the following week.
  - Hendrik thanked all participants for their active engagement and contributions.

---

## Action Items Summary
- **Brandon:** Continue preparing detailed meeting minutes with enhanced tooling and summaries for future sessions.
- **Mark Blackman:** Resolve the comments on the daily rewards for active nodes proposal and prepare for a clean vote at the next meeting.
- **Richard Bair:** Update the election process PR based on committee feedback and coordinate with LF teams regarding nomination and voting procedures.
- **TSC Members:** Finalize nomination timelines and voting mechanisms, particularly in light of upcoming community events (East Denver and Hedera Con).
- **Python DID SDK Team:** Upon transfer to Hiero, create an issue to implement configurable DID namespace settings.
- **Community Engagement:** Develop clear calls to action (e.g., landing page, printed materials) to boost nominations and voter registration for upcoming elections.

---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph