# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** The committee reviewed key updates including the proposal to initiate the project graduation process, presented two major HIPs (1081: Block Nodes and 1127: Unified Transaction Record Format), confirmed SDK namespace migration plans, and discussed simplifying the TSC voting structure. Votes for key proposals are deferred due to lack of quorum.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero Project  
**Date:** July 15, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95775743341?password=c07443bf-b0e6-4a68-93f1-5c7ce9bb49ab)

## TSC Attendees

- Hendrik Ebbers
- Alex Popowycz
- Leemon Baird
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn
- Stoyan Panayotov

## Guests

- Brandon Davenport
- Andrew Brandt
- Bhargava Tejas NVL
- Georgi Lazarov
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Keith Kowal
- Kiran Pachhai
- Mark Blackman
- May Chan
- Michael Garber
- Michael Tinker
- Nana Essilfie-Conduah
- Pavel Borisov
- Roger Barker
- Simi Hunjan

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- Should we create the request for graduation since all tasks are completed? (voting needed)
- Update: Election for the missing TSC seat (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/tree/main/elections/nominees/jul-2025-election)
- HIP 1081: [Block nodes](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-improvement-proposals/blob/e05327e5cb962c3d8e6c4272792d69a7e539b6bd/HIP/hip-1081.md)
- HIP 1127: [Optimized Transaction Records](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-improvement-proposals/blob/f36619434146e8ae5e35afa2dd633d7727ac7700/HIP/hip-1127.md)
- Hiero SDK publishing plan
- Update: Removing the TSC member voter eligibility requirements (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/pull/96)
- Creation of "hiero-ledger-eco" org for projects in incubation state (Create a taskforce to move the topic and description forward)
- Asychronous voting for the TSC (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/160 & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/169)
- Any other business (AOB)

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **Attendance Tracking Issue:** Clarified with Jessica Gonzalez that LFX email registration discrepancies are causing attendance recording issues. Members were advised to sign in via GitHub to ensure consistent tracking.

- **Graduation Readiness:** All checklist items for graduation (README consistency, OSFF scorecards, updated maintainer lists) are complete. Hendrik Ebbers proposed starting the process. Vote deferred due to lack of quorum (5/8 TSC members present); will proceed via async or at next meeting.

- **TSC Election:** 3 nominations received (Brandon, May, John). Voting underway. Results to be announced in the next meeting. Discussion about formal election for TSC Lead post-election.

- **HIP-1081: Block Nodes** (Presented by Nana Essilfie-Conduah): Introduces a new node type that acts as a decentralized data lake, decoupling data persistence and distribution from consensus nodes to offload responsibilities. Enhances data accessibility, decentralization, and enables more flexible client access patterns. Includes tiered architecture (Tier 1 receives streams from consensus nodes). Includes support for state proofs and filtered data streams.

- **HIP-1127: Unified Transaction Record Format** (Presented by Michael Tinker): Streamlines the block stream transaction data by removing excess structure from protobuf messages. This improves ergonomics for block nodes and ensures continued support for transaction lookups via hash.

- **SDK Namespace Migration Plan** (Presented by Simi Hunjan and Roger Barker):
  - JavaScript: Dual publishing starts with v2.70; exclusive Hiro namespace in v2.83
  - Rust: Dual publishing starts with v0.38; exclusive Hiro namespace in v0.51
  - Java: Hard cutover at v2.80 after 9 months of prior notice
  - Community communication will include blogs, newsletters, Discord, and partner outreach (e.g. HashPack)

- **Voting Eligibility Simplification:** Proposal discussed to simplify TSC voting eligibility from the current complex rule set to “those present may vote.” Linux Foundation leadership confirms this would be legally compliant.

## Key Decisions

- No formal votes conducted due to lack of quorum.
- Agreed to proceed with drafting graduation proposal for future vote.
- TSC supportive of SDK migration plan and communications strategy.

## Action Items

| Action Item | Owner | Due Date |
|-------------|-------|----------|
| Draft graduation proposal document | Hendrik Ebbers | Before next TSC meeting |
| Share SDK migration plan with broader dev community | Simi Hunjan, DevRel team | Ongoing |
| Coordinate direct communication with HashPack and partners | Simi Hunjan | ASAP |
| Draft blog post on SDK roadmap | Keith Kowal, Simi Hunjan | Before start of dual publishing |
| Report monthly SDK namespace adoption metrics | Roger Barker | Starting next TSC meeting |
| Continue discussion on TSC voting charter simplification | Hendrik Ebbers | Next TSC meeting |

## Active TSC member state
Based on charter:
> Any TSC member, including permanent members, that misses three (3) consecutive meetings shall be automatically suspended from eligibility to vote, i.e. no longer considered an active member, until having attended two meetings consecutively. For avoidance of doubt, the suspended TSC member shall be eligible to vote in the second consecutive meeting.

TSC Member             | active | 2025-07-08 | 2025-07-01 | 2025-06-24 | 2025-06-17 | 2025-06-10 | 2025-06-03 |
-----------------------|--------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
Hendrik Ebbers         | :+1:   | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       |            | :+1:       | :+1:       |
Richard Bair           | :+1:   | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       |
Leemon Baird           | :+1:   | :+1:       | :+1:       |            | :+1:       |            |            |
Stoyan Panayotov       | :+1:   |  ?         | :+1:       | :+1:       |            | :+1:       | :+1:       |
George Spasov          | :+1:   |  ?         | :+1:       |            |            | :+1:       | :+1:       |
Alexander Popowycz     | :+1:   | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       |
Michael Kantor         | :+1:   | :+1:       |            | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       |            |
Milan Wiercx van Rhijn | :+1:   | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       | :+1:       |

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
