
# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Call

**TL;DR:** The committee finalized preparations for upcoming elections, confirmed progress on project transitions, and reviewed Linux Foundation feedback on Hiero's graduation readiness, while also setting priorities for repository compliance and HIP processes.

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** April 29, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/qM6DYPJV9DDM8Vo9C-nanHzWER6HUoin3hlQgURIhecQpLp3A9U7XtjKNblVvm0.8YpyLGW2epVmyh0q)

## TSC Attendees

- Alex Popowycz
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Leemon Baird
- Stoyan Panayotov

## Guests

- Brandon Davenport
- Diane Mueller
- Ry Jones
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn
- Andrew Brandt
- Angelina Ceppaluni
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Keith Kowal
- Krystal I
- Mark Blackman
- May Chan
- Michael Kantor
- Nana Essilfie-Conduah
- Pavel Borisov
- Roger Barker
- Sophie Bulloch

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Agenda Items

- Approve previous minutes 
- Update on project transition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/community-transition.md)
- Update on election process (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/elections.md & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/ADOPTERS.md)
- Hiero annual report (https://github.com/LF-Decentralized-Trust/governance/pull/128)
- Rules, groups and roles definition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/pull/211)
- HIP 1056 "Block Streams" (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-improvement-proposals/blob/786c6ec36fcfa3069b3b9c9f2e55dc520eb1fdc2/HIP/hip-1056.md)
- Update/Discussion: Is the Application HIP process the correct workflow to SDK projects
- Dual publishing for SDKs (under 2 com.hedera and org.hiero namespace) for a more easy migration
- Any other business (AOB)

## Meeting Summary

- **Previous Minutes:** PRs for prior meeting notes are pending reviews; members were encouraged to review and approve them.
- **Project Transitions:** All initial Hedera-to-Hiero project transfers are complete. Community project transfers are pending.
- **Election Process:** Significant improvement in nominations and adopter submissions following outreach. Blog post detailing voting procedures is ready for publication and will be converted to a PR for easier collaboration.
- **Adopters File:** Clarification needed on the cutoff date for eligibility. The adopters file will continue to grow post-election for visibility and future cycles.
- **Voting Tools:** Helios Voting will be used, with eligible voters identified via GitHub contributions and hashed to ensure privacy.
- **Contributor Seats:** A contributor list for voters has been compiled. A public hash-checker tool allows individuals to confirm voting eligibility.
- **HIP Process:** Discussion underway on revising the HIP approval process into multi-phase (requirements vs. technical approval) to streamline progress.
- **Annual Report Feedback:** The TAC provided constructive feedback focused on maintainers files, changelogs, OpenSSF scorecards, and project structure best practices.
- **Graduation Priorities:** Addressing feedback and meeting best practices are now a bi-weekly initiative led by Jessica Gonzalez and others.
- **OpenSSF Scorecards:** Emphasized as a key graduation requirement; repos will be updated accordingly.
- **Additional Topics:** Roles & groups governance document and SDK naming are being finalized with community input for upcoming votes.

## Key Decisions

- Continue election-related outreach and finalize voting documentation via PR.
- Adopt Helios voting tool and privacy-preserving voter verification.
- Prioritize OpenSSF compliance and best practice alignment based on TAC feedback.
- Begin bi-weekly workstreams to meet graduation criteria.
- Move forward with reviewing HIP for block streams at next meeting.

## Action Items

- **All TSC members:** Review and approve pending meeting minutes PRs.
- **Jessica Gonzalez:** Finalize voting process article, include voter cutoff details, and publish as PR.
- **Ry Jones & Jessica Gonzalez:** Coordinate Helios setup and voter upload process.
- **Jessica Gonzalez:** Organize bi-weekly meetings to track graduation readiness tasks.
- **Hendrik Ebbers:** Reconfirm publication of all election videos on social platforms.
- **Keith Kowal:** Draft proposed HIP process revisions.
- **TSC Members:** Review ongoing GitHub discussions on SDK naming and roles & groups document before next meeting.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph

