# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting Minutes

**Date:** Tuesday, January 7th, 2024  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET / 15:00 UTC  
**Zoom Recording:** [Link](https://zoom.us/rec/share/0J74aX2cxb2t8rUzUqJaLzvegOvpkBjDsXsyeWFJZz6ZxuHFxSB8oEC5UHA_FFeB.kmL2Fwy3VaWaJgwo)

---

## TSC Attendees

- Stoyan Panayotov
- Richard Bair
- Leemon Baird
- Alex Popowycz
- Hendrik Ebbers

## Guests

- Keith Kowal
- Diane Mueller
- Brandon Davenport
- Mark Blackman
- Sophie Bulloch
- Angelina Ceppaluni
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Nana Essilfie-Conduah
- Tyler McDonald 


## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- Update on project transition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md)
- Review of HIP-1068 (https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1068)
- Review of HIP-1082 (https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1082)
- Review of HIP-1084 (https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1084)
- Update and discussion on release schedule and roadmap
- Discussion (and maybe voting) on transfering OpenElements/hedera-solo-action to Hiero (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/67)
- Discussion (and maybe voting) on transfering nadineloepfe/hedera_sdk_python to Hiero (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/75)
- Should we invest in OpenRewrite receipts for the usage of our SDK (Help users to migrate). See https://github.com/OpenElements/hiero-enterprise-java/pull/49 for discussion.
- Any other business (AOB) 

### Summary of the Meeting
 
- **Project transition** progress continued, but final decisions on DCO and licensing checks remain with the Linux Foundation’s legal team. Potential solutions include migrating first and fixing DCO items in the new Hiero repos.  
- **HIPs**: The committee noted updates on sponsor fees and zero-cost queries, with some HIPs already voted on and others still requiring discussion.  
- For the **release schedule and roadmap**, participants stressed the importance of demonstrating tangible progress—particularly in code migration to Hiero repos—before upcoming events (e.g., the LFD Decentralized Trust TAC report, ETHDenver, etc.).  
- Two **new project proposals**—the “solo” GitHub Action and a Python SDK—were voted in as official Hiero projects, at a sandbox/maturing level.  

---

## Detailed Notes

### Approval of Previous Minutes
- **Status**: Prior meeting’s minutes have one approval so far but cannot be formally approved yet due to a needed minor change (the agenda in the minutes was inadvertently altered).

### Project Transition Update

**Licensing Checks**  
- Hendrik Ebbers provided an overview of ongoing work verifying open-source license compliance for the soon-to-be-transferred repositories.  
- Previously tested tools (including Snyk) were insufficient for multi-language scanning.  
- A new candidate, **OSS Review Toolkit**, is being set up; it covers a broad range of languages and build systems. 

**DCO Sign-Off Checks**  
- The Linux Foundation flagged discrepancies between its own DCO checks and the TSC’s preliminary analyses.  
- Several commits do not strictly follow the DCO (missing correct sign-off line, mismatch in author vs. committer email, etc.).  
- The TSC is working with LF legal to confirm how to handle these edge cases (e.g., committer vs. author sign-offs, merges with squash commits, older commits without sign-offs).  
- **Potential Approaches**:  
  1. Correct the commits in the Hashgraph repos prior to migration.  
  2. Migrate to Hiero first, then systematically correct the commits there, if allowed by LF legal.  
- The TSC aims to expedite resolution, particularly for critical repos like the **SDKs** and the **consensus node** codebase, to align with upcoming deadlines.  

### HIP Updates
- **Zero-Cost Query HIP**:  
  - Already approved by the TSC in a previous meeting, with general consensus it adds beneficial functionality.  
- **Sponsored Fees HIP** (HIP-1082) & Additional HIP-1084:  
  - Both require further review/discussion. The TSC will revisit them in a future meeting.  
  - Richard Bair and others plan to reconvene on the open questions (e.g., clarifications around “gas” vs. “hbar,” last-minute changes).  

### Release Schedule & Roadmap
- Diane Mueller raised concerns about showing concrete progress to the **Linux Foundation Decentralized Trust TAC** (and other external stakeholders) given the timeline since Hiero’s inception.  
- The TSC stressed that final clarity on DCO compliance and license checks is critical to completing major code migrations, but agreed they must move promptly.  
- **Potential Milestones**:  
  - First official releases under Hiero no later than early 2025.  
  - Goal to have minimal viable releases showcased at or before community events such as ETHDenver or February’s scheduled SDK webinar.  
- Additional discussion centered on whether more resources are needed to expedite the transition.  

### New Project Proposals

**“solo” GitHub Action for Hedera -> Hiero**  
- A GitHub Action that facilitates spinning up a local “solo” environment for Hedera/Hiero development.  
- TSC members unanimously agreed it adds significant value for the developer community.  
- **Motion**: Move the repository into Hiero directly as a top-level project.  
- **Vote**: Approved unanimously.  
- **Maintainers**: Currently maintained by Hendrik Ebbers, with encouragement to add a second maintainer for redundancy.

**Python SDK**  
- Created and maintained by community contributors (notably Nadine, with recent contributions from others including Sophie Bulloch).  
- Project is still relatively early-stage (“sandbox” maturity), but clean codebase and strong developer interest make it an ideal candidate for Hiero.  
- **Motion**: Accept the Python SDK as a Hiero project under TSC guidance.  
- **Vote**: Approved unanimously.  
- Discussion included next steps for community outreach (universities, open-source events, and tapping into global Python communities).

---

## Action Items Recap

**Licensing & DCO Checks**  
   - Hendrik to continue implementing **OSS Review Toolkit** for multi-language license scanning.  
   - Follow up with LF legal on outstanding DCO sign-off questions.  
   - Seek permission/clarity about migrating code immediately vs. fixing commits in-place.

**HIP Updates**  
   - Revisit sponsor fees (HIP-1082) and other pending proposals in an upcoming session.  

**Release & Roadmap**  
   - Refine a realistic release schedule once code is in Hiero repos.  
   - Explore additional resources or tactics (community architect hire, more engineering help) to accelerate transitions.

**New Projects**  
   - **“solo” GitHub Action**: Migrate promptly to Hiero. Assign an additional maintainer.  
   - **Python SDK**: Migrate at “sandbox” maturity level.

---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph