# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** HIP-1299 was deemed ready for a TSC vote; the committee will run an **asynchronous Git-based vote** to conclude. Hacktoberfest/GFI efforts drove strong community contribution (notably in the Python SDK), and the group aligned on centralizing **meeting agendas** under `governance/` and documenting a clear **new-repo creation workflow**.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** October 28, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** https://zoom.us/rec/share/wL3mdsM9uugOGNCxuC2SmMf8bg46PGgUh7EtbBhgBgiea4XpVbiZFG-Mex1tKNzs.FYsWMJs5Esik0a4Y

---

## TSC Attendees

- Hendrik Ebbers
- Richard Bair
- Alexander Popowycz
- Michael Kantor
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn
- Brandon Davenport
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Georgi Lazarov

## Guests

- Nana Essilfie-Conduah  
- Pavel Borisov  
- Tayebwa Noah  
- Mark Blackman  
- Amanda Clark  
- Andrew Brandt  
- Angelina Ceppaluni  
- Diane Mueller  
- Jessica Gonzalez  
- Jessie Ssebuliba  
- Joseph Sinclair  
- Keith Kowal  
- May Chan  
- Michael Garber  
- Sophie Bulloch

---

## Agenda Items

- Approve previous minutes  
- HIPs ([Project board](https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/projects/31/views/1?sortedBy%5Bdirection%5D=asc&sortedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status))  
- SDK (Developer Experience)  
- Any other business (AOB)

## Guests

As every Hiero meeting the TSC meeting is a public meeting and everybody can attend it.  
You can find all the information about the TSC meetings and all other Hiero meetings in our [public calender](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meetings/hiero).

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **Previous minutes**: Backlog is current; most recent minutes planned to be merged shortly.  
- **HIP-1299**:  
  - Discussion focused on **penalties via due-diligence failures** and how these interact with fee computation and future **fee collection account** changes.  
  - Consensus that HIP-1299 is **ready for vote**; quorum in-call was marginal, so the TSC will conduct an **async vote**.  
- **Good First Issues & Hacktoberfest**:  
  - Strong results across repos; **Python SDK** saw **50+ contributors** and many merged PRs.  
  - Plan to **continue Good First Issues** promotion after Hacktoberfest (stop using “Hacktoberfest” labels going forward).  
  - Maintainers asked to **triage older GFI candidates** for relevance and clarity; topic to feature in the **Maintainers Monthly** meeting.  
  - Improved contributor docs (GPG signing, sign-off, workflow) credited for momentum; ideas raised for short **how-to video(s)** and community recognition.  
- **SDK Collaboration**:  
  - Work advancing on a language-agnostic **“meta-API”** spec for proposals and per-language best-practice guides.  
  - Agreement that the **TCK** is the right place for **conformance testing** (normative inputs/outputs) across SDKs; adapters per SDK envisioned.  
  - A sandbox exists to explore **future SDK designs**.  
- **GitHub Discussions**:  
  - Request for maintainers/community to **reply to unanswered org-level discussions** and **close stale** threads per rules.  
- **Centralizing agendas/minutes**:  
  - Agreement to host **meeting agendas (and optionally minutes)** centrally under the **`governance/`** repo, using CODEOWNERS for permissions.  
  - Where available, link **AI meeting summaries** from the calendar to the agenda entries.  
- **Repo creation workflow**:  
  - Need to document a clear process for **new repo creation** (not just transfers), including TSC-approval prerequisites and who executes the change (config PR).  
  - Specific near-term need: the **Identity Standards** repo previously approved by the TSC.

---

## Key Decisions

- Proceed with an **asynchronous Git-based TSC vote** on **HIP-1299**.  
- **Continue** Good First Issues beyond Hacktoberfest; **retire** Hacktoberfest labels post-October.  
- **Centralize** meeting agendas (and optional minutes) under **`governance/`**; plan to **migrate TSC and SDK agendas** there.  
- Use **TCK** for SDK **conformance testing** as features land via proposals.

### Action Items

- **Jessica Gonzalez & Hendrik Ebbers**: Set up the **async vote** for HIP-1299 and notify TSC members.  
- **All Maintainers**: Review/refresh **Good First Issues** (close outdated, clarify scopes); attend Maintainers Monthly for GFI best practices.  
- **SDK Team**:  
  - Refine **meta-API** guidelines and start mapping to language-specific best practices.  
  - Expand **TCK** test plans and SDK adapters.  
- **Community/Maintainers**: Sweep **GitHub Discussions** for unanswered items; reply or close as appropriate.  
- **Jessica Gonzalez**:  
  - Create **`governance/meetings/`** structure (agendas + optional minutes), configure **CODEOWNERS**, and begin migration.  
  - **Rename** the bi-weekly “project transition” meeting to include **new repo creation** and document the workflow (owner, config PR, TSC approval check).  
- **Brandon Davenport**: Share/extend the **AI-assisted summary workflow** to other working groups.  
- **Project Ops**: Document the **new-repo creation process** and execute for the **Identity Standards** repo approved by the TSC.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Product, Hgraph
