# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Call

**TL;DR:**  
The May 20th TSC call centered around updates on the Hiero Hooks HIP, an upcoming election status check, and a significant process improvement discussion around HIP approvals. Although quorum was not met for formal votes, consensus supported moving forward with the updated hooks proposal next week. The committee also made meaningful strides toward simplifying and clarifying the HIP process.

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero Technical Steering Committee  
**Date:** May 20, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/v5gQsPXuOASo1YBhK2nbAWQ9RPMiX1oLvGPfNhpsqVrUHe77EpN3Ukhi4YfQ3nTq.0ciKwwpuP_2-vOys)

## TSC Attendees

- Richard Bair  
- Alex Popowycz 
- Leemon Baird  

## Guests

- Brandon Davenport   
- Michael Tinker  
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn  
- Andrew Brandt  
- Akram AbouEmara  
- Angelina Ceppaluni  
- Deepak Rathore  
- Diane Mueller  
- Jessica Gonzalez  
- Keith Kowal  
- Kiran Pachhai  
- Louis Fourie  
- Mark Blackman  
- May Chan  
- Nana Essilfie-Conduah  
- Pavel Borisov  
- Robert Walworth  
- Roger Barker  
- Sophie Bulloch

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Agenda Items

1. Welcome and Code of Conduct
2. Review of Previous Meeting Minutes
3. Election Status Update
4. Hiero Hooks HIP Discussion
5. TSC Voting Quorum and Process Tools
6. HIP Process Improvement Proposal by Keith Kowal

## Meeting Summary

- **Election Update**:
  - End-user seat: 16 of 25 votes submitted.
  - Contributor seat: 53 of 447 votes cast.
  - Reminders planned to increase voter turnout.
- **Hiero Hooks HIP**:
  - In-depth technical discussion on transaction fee mechanics, anti-dusting strategies, and smart contract gas costs.
  - Agreement on including configurable payment logic and hook registration fees in the next HIP version.
  - Consensus that hooks should trigger in certain conditions (e.g., value thresholds), but deferred for later versions due to complexity.
  - General support expressed for the HIP, but no quorum to formally vote.
- **Process Improvements**:
  - Jessica and Diane to create a TSC voting/quorum tracker to prevent confusion on eligibility.
  - Keith Kowal proposed a refinement of the HIP lifecycle:
    - Introduce TSC approval after high-level spec (Step 2) but before low-level details are finalized.
    - Delegate low-level vetting to maintainers or a designated subcommittee.
    - Promote two-stage approvals to enhance transparency and avoid wasted effort.
  - Suggestions to create a “HIP Review Working Group” for community collaboration and early-stage feedback.

## Presentations

- **Michael Tinker** presented the latest updates to the Hooks HIP, focusing on fee responsibility, anti-dusting features, and contract extensibility.
- **Keith Kowal** presented a comprehensive proposal for streamlining and structuring the HIP approval process to balance technical rigor with community engagement.

## Key Decisions

- No formal decisions or votes due to lack of quorum.
- Broad agreement on the need to restructure the HIP approval process with clear roles and phased approvals.
- General endorsement for the Hooks HIP direction, with final updates and potential vote planned for next week.

## Action Items

- **Michael Tinker**: Finalize and submit updated HIP, incorporating rent handling, gas floor charges, and clearer diagrams.
- **Jessica Gonzalez & Diane Mueller**: Develop and maintain a TSC quorum tracker.
- **Keith Kowal**: Refine HIP process proposal based on feedback and circulate for review.
- **Richard Bair**: Consider initiating a dedicated HIP review working group meeting series.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph