# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** The TSC unanimously approved the project proposal to add **Hiero Consensus Specifications** (`hiero-consensus-specifications`) under the Hiero organization. The group also reviewed the new governance wiki for meeting minutes, agreed to move TSC minutes there, and aligned on creating a TSC email alias/mailing list for easier community outreach.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** Tuesday, December 9, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** https://zoom.us/rec/share/Yhnl8WINrWp9fYd9Vr-zh9pZ-8em-3BoHfByT5lx5428IBseT10BQ_FiNtrBhjGV.JbZHy5VAkHNLZ5gK

---

## TSC Attendees

- Brandon Davenport
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Michael Kantor
- Georgi Lazarov
- Richard Bair
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Alexander Popowycz

## Guests

- Andrew Brandt
- Angelina Ceppaluni
- Diane Mueller
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Joseph Sinclair
- Keith Kowal
- Kiran Pachhai
- Mark Blackman
- Noah
- Pavel Borisov
- Priyanshu Yadav
- Roger Barker
- Jason Fabritz
- Michael Garber
- Najuna Brian
- Sophie Bulloch
- Manuel Wandres
- Ian Sparkes

---

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- Any Updates/Events from Communities or members?
- HIPs ([Project](https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/projects/31/views/1?sortedBy%5Bdirection%5D=asc&sortedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status))
- Project proposals voting: [hiero-hol-hcs-specs](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/261)
- Wiki for Meetings and Minutes: https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/wiki
- Request to create a TSC mailing list as easy way to contact all TSC members
- Any other business (AOB)

## Guests

As every Hiero meeting the TSC meeting is a public meeting and everybody can attend it.  
You can find all the information about the TSC meetings and all other Hiero meetings in our [public calender](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meetings/hiero).

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **Moderation / roll-in:** Brandon Davenport moderated because Hendrik Ebbers was initially unavailable; Hendrik later joined and asked for a recap.
- **Previous minutes:** Brandon noted **three open PRs** in the TSC repo for prior minutes that still need additional approving reviews before merging.
- **Community updates / events:**
  - Michael Kantor reminded attendees about **“Patchwork: Syncing on AI Standards”** (Dec 10) and shared that the event includes participation from groups such as IEEE and Linux Foundation (link was shared in chat; it is also listed on the governance wiki).
- **Good first issue enablement (Sophie Bulloch):**
  - Sophie shared progress on **“good first issue” templates** (currently used in the Python SDK) that pre-fill structure, onboarding steps, and labeling to make it faster and more consistent to create beginner-friendly issues.
  - Sophie indicated work is in progress to extend similar templates across other Hiero repositories.
- **HIPs dashboard:**
  - Brandon called out **HIP-1208** as “in review” and asked for any updates.
  - Mark Blackman flagged **records-to-block-streams cutover** work as a near-term focus, noting it will go through a rewrite and may surface in upcoming meetings.
- **Project proposal vote (HCS / consensus specs):**
  - Michael reported the Hashgraph Online DAO aligned on the updated name: **Hiero Consensus Specifications** (keeps the “HCS” acronym continuity).
  - The TSC confirmed quorum was sufficient for a vote (per Richard Bair: “We have 6…”).
  - The TSC **unanimously approved** the project proposal to create `hiero-consensus-specifications` under the Hiero organization.
- **Meetings & minutes wiki (Jessica Gonzalez):**
  - Jessica walked through the governance wiki, including instructions for adding meeting entries, upcoming announcements, and the schedule/registration links table.
  - Key operational note: the wiki is **editable directly** (no PR required), with a reminder to edit carefully.
  - Discussion clarified why TSC minutes historically used PR approvals (to keep an auditable record of approval) and proposed an alternative: approve minutes verbally at the start of the next meeting (e.g., “any objections” / “two people approve”).
  - Brandon and Hendrik aligned to **move TSC agendas/minutes into the wiki** going forward.
- **TSC mailing list / contact alias:**
  - Hendrik proposed creating a simple **email alias** (not for internal long threads) so community members and LF staff can email *one address* and reach all TSC members.
  - Jessica confirmed LF can implement this (via groups.io) and asked TSC members to send their preferred email addresses to Hendrik (or to Jessica via Hendrik).

---

## Key Decisions

1. **Approved:** Project Proposal to create **`hiero-consensus-specifications`** (Hiero Consensus Specifications) under Hiero.
2. **Agreed (process change):** Transition TSC agendas/minutes to the **governance wiki**, with approval handled during meetings rather than PR-based approvals (details to be implemented by the minute-takers and LF support).
3. **Agreed (direction):** Create a **TSC email alias/mailing list** to simplify contacting all TSC members.

---

## Action Items

- **All TSC members:** Provide the remaining approving reviews needed to merge the **three** outstanding “previous minutes” PRs (async).
- **Michael Kantor:** Email `ecosystem@lfdecentralizedtrust.org` and CC Jessica Gonzalez to complete registration for LF events (Maintainer Days / Member Summit) per Jessica’s guidance.
- **All TSC members:** Send preferred contact email addresses to **Hendrik Ebbers** (who will forward to Jessica) so LF can create the **TSC mailing list / alias**.
- **Brandon Davenport (with Jessica support):** Begin transitioning TSC minutes/agendas into the governance wiki workflow.
- **Sophie Bulloch / Hendrik Ebbers / Jessica Gonzalez:** Continue the discussion on where analytics/reporting code should live (governance repo vs separate repo), and raise it in the upcoming TAG context as discussed.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Product, Hgraph
