# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** The TSC welcomed newly elected member Georgi Lazarov; approved the creation of a Hiero Identity Standards project/repo to house DID/identity specs; targeted a vote next week on HIP-1261 (“Clean Fees”) after a final read-through; and discussed a consolidated Homebrew packaging project, which will return next meeting with more detail. Hacktoberfest prep is underway with a “good first issues” landing page and outreach plan.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** September 23, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** https://zoom.us/rec/share/_HPjdt_34eFMrQRafKkCmikBwNc2upAT7qLQA5uhXESTO2PRv3wEWh-hZsLeqgIG.sX0FXocC4VGiNK95

---

## TSC Attendees

- Brandon Davenport  
- Hendrik Ebbers  
- Alexander (Alex) Popowycz  
- Georgi Lazarov  
- Leemon Baird (perm)  
- Michael Kantor  
- Richard Bair  
- Stoyan Panayotov  
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn

## Guests

- Alexander Shenshin  
- Amanda Clark  
- Andrew Brandt  
- Angelina Ceppaluni  
- Diane Mueller  
- DJ Kruitbosch  
- Jason Fabritz  
- Jessica Gonzalez  
- Keith Kowal  
- Kiran Pachhai  
- Pavel Borisov  
- Michael Garber

---

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- HIPs ([Project](https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/projects/31/views/1?sortedBy%5Bdirection%5D=asc&sortedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status))
- September Election (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/tree/main/elections/nominees/sep-2025-election)
- Hackotberfest contributions
- Project Proposal: hiero-identity-standards (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/229)
- Project Proposal: homebrew-tools (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/228)
- Any other business (AOB)

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **Prior minutes/HIPs status:** No open PRs to approve this week; several HIPS are in **last call** and may come to the TSC soon.  
- **Election:** **Georgi Lazarov** announced as newly elected TSC member (maintainer seat). Effective immediately; onboarding to follow.  
- **Hacktoberfest 2025:**  
  - Building a **“Good first issues”** landing page (aggregated from repos via GitHub API) and a **Contributor Highlights** page.  
  - Drafting **guidelines** so issues are vetted and “Hacktoberfest”-labeled only after quality review.  
  - **Outreach:** Plan to promote via Hiero site and social; suggestion for an LF-owned **X/Twitter** account for Hiero with minimal weekly updates.  
  - LF guidance: social accounts must be **owned/managed by LF**; LFDT can also publish via its channels to avoid brand confusion.  
- **HIP-1261 (“Clean Fees”):** Keith noted the HIP is in good shape post-feedback. TSC to do a **final read-through**; **vote next meeting** without an additional presentation (pending chair confirmation).  
- **Project Proposal — Hiero Identity Standards (Approved):**  
  - Create a **single repo** to host identity-related **standards/specifications** (e.g., DID Hedera v1/v2, Hedera AnonCreds method), managed through the **HIP process** (informational/application HIPS for new specs and updates).  
  - Discussion touched on **conformance** references (e.g., DIF test suites) to aid implementers.  
  - **Decision:** Motion to create project/repo **approved unanimously** by TSC members present.  
- **Project Proposal — Homebrew Tools (Deferred):**  
  - Goal: a **central brew tap** repo with formulas for Hiero CLI tools (e.g., Solo, Hiero CLI) to enable `brew install …` workflows on macOS.  
  - Topics: security posture of formulas, expected install flow (NPM vs source build), and user experience.  
  - **Next step:** Return with an **architecture/flow diagram**, examples, and security notes before a vote.  
- **AOB — Maintainer reporting:** Revisit expectations for **regular maintainer reports** to the TSC so they’re consistent and value-add.  
- **Community items:** LFDT meetup announced; suggestion to publish last week’s “One year of Hiero” fireside chat recording for wider visibility.

---

## Presentations

- **Hiero Identity Standards** — overview by **Keith Kowal** (with **Diane Mueller**): consolidate DID/identity method specs in one Hiero repo; manage evolution via HIPS; include references to external normative specs and conformance resources.

---

## Key Decisions

- **Create “Hiero Identity Standards” project** with one repository to house identity specs; **approved unanimously** by TSC members present.  
- **HIP-1261 “Clean Fees”**: schedule a **vote next meeting** after TSC completes one more read-through.  
- ⏸**Homebrew Tools project**: **deferred** pending additional materials (diagram, examples, security considerations).

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
