# Hiero Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting Minutes

**Date:** Tuesday, January 28, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET / 15:00 UTC  
**Zoom Recording Link:** [View Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/3RjTEUxVXMxf-hRp5qwPyEpGOsdZi36Sul2KiyrKd4NL5Pd-S_Wuy_YY00PTvpI_.RfBu-RKrcxSVncEw)

---

## TSC Attendees
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Leemon Baird
- George Spasov
- Stoyan Panayotov

## Guests
- Keith Kowal
- Diane Mueller
- Brandon Davenport
- Neeharika Sompalli
- Suma Bala Nair

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Agenda
1. Welcome and Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes  
2. Project Transition Status & Transfer Updates (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md)
3. Review of In-Progress HIPs  
    - Review of HIP-1068 (https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1068)
    - Review of HIP-1082 (https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1082)
    - Review of HIP-1064 (https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1064) 
4. TSC Election Process & Community Seat Elections  
5. Release Schedule and Roadmap  
6. Proposal: Transfer of Python DID SDK to Hiero (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/81)
7. AOB (Any Other Business) & Adjourn

---

## Summary of the Meeting

- **Project Transition:** Most SDK repositories have been successfully transferred or are in the final stages of review. Outstanding license issues on a few repositories (including the Rust SDK) are being resolved. Overall, the TSC is confident the final hurdles will be cleared soon.  
- **HIP Discussions:** Several HIPs (Sponsored Fees, EVM Addresses, and Node Rewards) were tabled until all relevant authors could attend. Quick updates were shared, but no final decisions were made.  
- **TSC Election Process:** Richard has been preparing a voting/election proposal for open TSC seats. This topic was deferred due to Richard’s absence, but the committee reiterated the importance of expanding TSC membership with community representation.  
- **Release Schedule & Roadmap:** Progress is on track for major deliverables, particularly around the “Hiero Consensus Node” code and upcoming demonstration opportunities (e.g., ETHDenver). SOLO and other important developer tools remain key targets for near-future migration.  
- **Python DID SDK Proposal:** A detailed discussion took place about the newly developed Python DID SDK from DSR. It implements the existing Hedera DID method and adds support for AnonCreds objects. There was general consensus that it fits well within Hiero. Additional clarifications around DID features and separation of concerns are ongoing. A final vote was deferred to accommodate further review and to ensure quorum.  

---

## Detailed Meeting Notes

### 1. Welcome and Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes
- **Hendrik Ebbers** opened the meeting, noting that the minutes from the last TSC meeting are available as a pull request.  
- He encouraged TSC members to review and provide feedback so they can be merged. No objections were raised.

### 2. Project Transition Status & Transfer Updates
- **Hendrik** reported substantial progress in transferring SDKs from Hedera/Hashgraph to Hiero:
  - Most repositories are moved or in final checks.  
  - A few license clarifications remain on certain repositories (like the Rust SDK). Hedera’s team is working on removing or replacing any problematic licensed dependencies.  
  - The Hedera Services repository (to be renamed “Hiero Consensus Node”) is largely ready, with no major licensing or DCO blocks. Automatic license checks are still being refined.  
- **Discussion:**  
  - **Diane Mueller** emphasized the importance of ensuring all repos are fully compliant before finalizing the transition.  
  - **Hendrik** confirmed that the foundation’s legal teams consider most issues manageable and not true blockers.  

### 3. Review of In-Progress HIPs

#### 3.1 Sponsored Fees HIP
- Authored by **Nana**, who was absent.  
- The TSC awaits clarifications and a final discussion with the author.  
- **Hendrik** noted the desire to move forward but will reschedule until Nana can attend.

#### 3.2 EVM Addresses HIP
- Also attributed to **Nana**.  
- Deferred for a future meeting.

#### 3.3 Daily Rewards for Active Nodes HIP
- A continuing discussion involves **Leemon Baird**, **Richard**, **Alex**, and others.  
- **Leemon** reiterated the approach: 
  - The HIP includes a flag to reduce or augment node rewards based on average transactions flowing through a node.  
  - The logic incentivizes nodes to handle more traffic.  
- **Neeharika** noted some concerns raised by **Alex** about predictable vs. variable node rewards.  
- **Georgi** commented that predictability and transparency are crucial for node operators.  
- **Leemon** proposed the feature can be governed by a flag, which on Hedera might be turned on permanently. On other networks, operators can decide.  
- **Outcome**: Further discussion is needed when all key stakeholders (Alex, Richard) are present.

### 4. TSC Election Process & Community Seat Elections
- **Hendrik** explained **Richard** has been working on a structured voting and election framework.  
- This is pivotal for filling the TSC community seats.  
- Richard could not attend, so final updates were postponed.  
- **Diane** requested early visibility into Richard’s proposal to begin scheduling the election.

### 5. Release Schedule and Roadmap
- **Diane** confirmed the major repositories (e.g., Hiero Consensus Node, the transition of core SDKs) are on track for demonstration at ETHDenver.  
- **SOLO** is still pending, but efforts are underway to move it to Hiero.  
- **Timeline**: The group aims to have these transitions completed in time to showcase developer tooling at upcoming events.

### 6. Proposal: Transfer of Python DID SDK to Hiero
- **Context**:  
  - A HIP (HIP-762) introduced the concept of an AnonCreds Verifiable Data Registry on Hedera.  
  - The newly developed Python DID SDK from DSR is essential for writing and reading DID objects (and other AnonCreds-related payloads) on Hedera.  
  - This SDK would eventually serve as a dependency for an upcoming Aries Cloud Agent Python (ACA-Py) plugin and other identity-based tooling in Python.  
- **Details** (led by **Keith Kowal**, joined by **Diane Mueller** and later **Suma**):  
  - The library is licensed under Apache 2.0, with no immediate DCO or license concerns.  
  - It currently resides in DSR’s GitHub but is intended to be open-sourced under Hiero.  
  - Discussion topics included:
    - **Scope**: The library handles standard DID operations (aligned with the W3C DID specification for Hedera) plus extra constructs for AnonCreds (e.g., credential definitions, accumulators).  
    - **Separation vs. Single Repo**: **Hendrik** inquired whether the DID portion should be isolated from the specialized AnonCreds functionality. **Keith** responded that it’s a single cohesive set of features for developers; splitting it might complicate usage.  
    - **Community & Maintenance**: DSR is under contract for maintenance for one year, and the community is expected to adopt it further.  
    - **Application vs. SDK**: Clarification that, from a developer’s standpoint, this is a library/SDK that can be reused for multiple DID-based or AnonCreds-based solutions. It is not an end-user application or UI.  
    - **Voting**:  
      - Several TSC members expressed support, seeing it as beneficial for Python developers wanting to integrate DID/AnonCreds.  
      - **Hendrik** requested a brief tutorial or documentation on the DID portion to fully understand the synergy with existing Java/JavaScript DID libraries.  
      - A final vote was deferred to ensure full quorum and to allow time for clarifications.  
    - **Next Steps**:  
      - **Diane** and **Keith** will schedule a short session with Hendrik to ensure all technical questions are addressed.  
      - Once the quorum and clarifications are resolved, the TSC may vote asynchronously (via mailing list or special meeting) to expedite transfer, enabling the library to be published on PyPI in a timely manner.

### 7. Any Other Business (AOB)
- No additional topics beyond those discussed.  
- Meeting concluded with agreement to follow up on outstanding votes (especially for the Python DID SDK repo transfer) via asynchronous channels if necessary.  
- Next meeting will aim to finalize these pending items and discuss the TSC election process and HIP updates with the relevant authors present.

---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph