# Hiero Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

**TL;DR:**
The TSC advanced two major initiatives—migrating all SDKs to the new **`hiero`** namespace and bringing the popular **AI Agent Kit (JavaScript)** into the project. A migration proposal covering every SDK will be prepared for a vote next week, and an asynchronous e-mail vote will complete approval of the Agent Kit transfer. Work toward LF Edge graduation continues, with maintainers asked to review incoming PRs quickly.

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** 10 June 2025
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET
**Recording:** [Zoom link](https://zoom.us/rec/share/xWARew4PX4S3q8GFqPUZwlJq_nqMsLzKoS-QUiG6TWOEjtHlSb67mYyKfL7RYLcp.55qNeqtAYZsMmkBz)

## TSC Attendees

- Hendrik Ebbers
- Georgi Spasov
- Alex Popowycz
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Richard Bair
- Michael Kantor

## Attendees

- Brandon Davenport
- Jessica Gonzalez
- May Chan
- Andrew Brandt
- Diane Mueller
- Angelina Ceppaluni
- Deepak Rathore
- Georgi Lazarov
- Keith Kowal
- Kiran Pachhai
- Pavel Borisov
- Sumabala Nair
- Tyler
- Weijia Zhang

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- Dual publishing and namespace change for SDKs (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/sdk-collaboration-hub/issues/29)
- Projept proposal for hedera-dev/hedera-agent-kit (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/150)
- Suggestion: rename "Application" Hip type to something more meaningful / less missleading
- Any other business (AOB)

## Meeting Summary

- **SDK Namespace Migration**

  - _Proposal_: Publish Java, JavaScript, and Rust SDKs under the **`hiero`** namespace.

    - Java → hard cut-over after 6–9 months’ notice.
    - JS & Rust → dual-publish for ≥ 6 months.
    - Tentative communication start: **1 July 2025**; possible major version bump to **3.0**.

  - _Next step_: **Simi Hunjan** will extend the plan to every official SDK (C++, Go, etc.) and open a PR in the _sdk-collaboration-hub_ repo for a TSC vote next week.

- **AI Agent Kit (JavaScript)**

  - Presented by **Michael Kantor** & **Ty Patches**. 7 000+ weekly downloads; wraps Hiero JS SDK for AI agents (execution & human-in-the-loop modes).
  - Repository will be renamed **`ai-agent-kit-js`** under the Hiero GitHub org; NPM package will move to `@hiero/ai-agent-kit`.
  - TSC vote in meeting: **5 Yes / 0 No**, but quorum not met; asynchronous e-mail vote to collect the remaining members’ decisions.

- **HIP Category Naming**

  - Discussion on whether “Application HIP” is confusing; consensus to keep current naming.

- **LF Edge Graduation Work** (target re-application **1 Aug 2025**)

  - Three focus items:

    1. **`MAINTAINERS`** files – scope updates underway.
    2. **OpenSSF Scorecard** – raise all repos to **≥ 7.0**; add GitHub Action & badge to READMEs.
    3. **README template** – new standardized file with badges; PRs coming to each repo.

  - Maintainers asked to review and merge related PRs promptly.

- **Other Business**

  - Markdown link-check GitHub Action is failing on legacy files; **Jessica Gonzalez** will adjust it to scan only changed files.
  - Namespace token on _crates.io_ for Rust SDK confirmed as secured.

## Key Decisions

1. **Proceed** with drafting a full-SDK namespace-migration PR for TSC vote (responsible: Simi Hunjan).
2. **Approve in principle** the transfer of AI Agent Kit (JS) into Hiero; asynchronous vote to finalize.
3. Retain the term **“Application HIP”** for HIP category.
4. Adopt new README template and pursue OpenSSF score improvements across all repos.

## Action Items

| Action                                                                                              | Owner                                 | Deadline                                      |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| Draft PR covering migration for **all** SDKs and submit to _sdk-collaboration-hub_                  | **Simi Hunjan**                       | **17 Jun 2025** (next TSC)                    |
| Coordinate asynchronous e-mail vote for AI Agent Kit transfer; confirm charter allows e-mail voting | **Hendrik Ebbers & Jessica Gonzalez** | 13 Jun 2025                                   |
| Reserve/verify publishing tokens (NPM, crates.io, Maven) & document CI/CD process                   | **Roger Barker / Jessica Gonzalez**   | 1 Jul 2025                                    |
| Update Markdown link-check action to scan only modified files                                       | **Jessica Gonzalez**                  | 24 Jun 2025                                   |
| Review & merge PRs for MAINTAINERS, README, OpenSSF scorecard                                       | **All repo maintainers**              | Ongoing (goal ≥ 7.0 score by **15 Jul 2025**) |

## Materials

- Draft SDK migration doc (Google Doc link shared in meeting)
- AI Agent Kit demo video (Hedera AI Demo Day, posted in chat)
- LF Edge graduation tracking issues (#98, #99, #100) in `tsc` repo

---

_Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Director of Comms, Hgraph_  
