# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** The TSC reviewed HIP-1200 (hinTS threshold signature scheme) and will hold a vote next week. Hacktoberfest preparation is underway with ~15 “Good first issue” candidates progressing. A new monthly maintainers’ community call will be scheduled.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** October 7, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** https://zoom.us/rec/share/Tyingl_nycYi3whv7dysY7IskoI4gT2geda-StA7Of-SscH8jg5q5LFxd7bk17s.7Q3k8vVY8VHEyMuN

---

## TSC Attendees

- Hendrik Ebbers  
- Richard Bair  
- Leemon Baird 
- Alexander Popowycz  
- Michael Kantor  
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn  
- Brandon Davenport  
- Georgi Lazarov  

## Guests

- Mark Blackman  
- Amanda Clark  
- Andrew Brandt  
- Angelina Ceppaluni  
- Giuseppe Bertone  
- Jason Fabritz  
- Jessica Gonzalez  
- Keith Kowal  
- Kiran Pachhai  
- Michael Garber  
- Pavel Borisov  

---

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- HIPs ([Project](https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/projects/31/views/1?sortedBy%5Bdirection%5D=asc&sortedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status))
  - Presentation of  HIP-1200: The hinTS threshold signature scheme (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-improvement-proposals/pull/1200)
- Hackotberfest update (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/guidelines/good-first-issues.md)
- Any other business (AOB)

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **HIP-1200 (hinTS threshold signature scheme)**
  - Presentation covered how TSS will replace per-node RSA record signatures with a **single aggregated network signature** per block, improving verification speed and cost for mirrors and downstream consumers.
  - Key elements highlighted:
    - **BLS-based aggregation** for a single block proof.
    - **Weighted shares** (via hinTS) to reflect consensus weight rather than simple one-node-one-vote.
    - **Recursive address book proof** enabling independently verifiable blocks without traversing history back to genesis.
    - **Stable ledger ID** concept: a durable identifier used to verify block proofs even as membership changes.
  - **Backward compatibility:** Legacy signatures remain; new scheme indirectly covers prior blocks via the block chain structure and address-book proofing.
  - **Follow-ups:** A minor, unintended change in another HIP file was noticed in the HIP-1200 PR; Mark will confirm and correct if needed.
  - **Next step:** TSC to **vote next week**.

- **Hacktoberfest update**
  - Guidelines expanded (what Hacktoberfest is, expectations, and issue hygiene).
  - ~15 “Good first issue” candidates created/reviewed; some promoted to “Good first issue.” Several already have assignees.
  - Next actions:
    - Hendrik to meet with teams (starting with the Python SDK, then other SDKs and consensus node) to refine/expand the good-first-issue backlog.
    - Community visibility: requests submitted to external aggregators to list Hiero good-first-issues (pending merges).

- **Community & maintainer engagement**
  - **New/updated public calls** (appear in the community calendar):
    - Weekly **Good First Issue Refinement** (Mondays; timing may be adjusted based on participation).
    - **Hiero Identity Community Call**.
    - **Bi-weekly Marketing & Community Engagement** (first session next week, directly after the TSC meeting).
  - **Maintainers’ Community Call (new):**
    - Agreed to pilot a **monthly** maintainers-focused call (topics: good-first-issue practices, handling external PRs, OpenSSF Scorecards, ecosystem-wide migrations such as npm trusted publishing).
    - **Owner:** Jessica to propose day/time and add to calendar.

- **Admin for next week**
  - Hendrik will be **absent**; TSC to identify a **stand-in moderator** in the TSC channel.

---

## Key Decisions

- Proceed to a **vote next week** on HIP-1200.  
- Establish a **monthly Maintainers’ Community Call** (Jessica to schedule).  

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
