# Hiero Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

**TL;DR:** The TSC approved HIP-1195 and debated SDK governance, particularly whether SDK changes should require HIPs. The committee aligned on clarifying which SDK changes need formal proposals. The upcoming Go SDK proposal will be discussed in next weekâ€™s meeting.

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero TSC  
**Date:** May 27, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/THizs3eMSlnhJG0ymgJE6zqtwnYs0Nd9kZAUJByhLAk3Oo0s45t2yla_XX4EqN0l.6v8c8WgvJfj5MBGy)

### TSC Attendees
  
- Hendrik Ebbers   
- Alex Popowycz  
- Georgi Spasov  
- Leemon Baird  
- Richard Bair  
- Stoyan Panayotov

### Guests

- Brandon Davenport  
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn
- Andrew Brandt  
- Angelina Ceppaluni  
- Deepak Rathore  
- Diane Mueller  
- Georgi Lazarov  
- Keith Kowal  
- Kiran Pachhai  
- Mark Blackman  
- May Chan  
- Mercy Boma  
- Michael Tinker  
- Nana Essilfie-Conduah  
- Pavel Borisov  
- Roger Barker  
- Sophie Bulloch

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Agenda Items

- Approve previous minutes
- Update on election process (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/elections.md & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/ADOPTERS.md) YouTube: (https://youtu.be/GxDik68U6xs, https://youtu.be/aqWDbzJbeig and https://youtu.be/aF-eLgFQQwg)
- Discussion: Public information about maintainers in MAINTAINERS.MD file
- HIP-1195 (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-improvement-proposals/blob/main/HIP/hip-1195.md)
- Update/Discussion: Is the Application HIP process the correct workflow to SDK projects (https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/discussions/82)
- Dual publishing for SDKs (under 2 com.hedera and org.hiero namespace) for a more easy migration
- Update on project "hiero-solo-action" (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-solo-action)

## Meeting Summary
  
- **Minutes Review:** Several pull requests for past meeting minutes are still open. TSC members were asked to review them to ensure broader input and facilitate merging.

- **Election Update:**
  - Jessica (absent) is tracking votes.
  - End-user seat: >50% of votes cast.
  - Contributor seat: ~25% participation.
  - Issues with eligibility in Helios voting were discussed; Hendrik and Jessica will follow up on discrepancies.
  - Clarification given about how adopter eligibility translates into voting rights.

- **Maintainers File Policy:**
  - Discussion centered on whether `discord_id` should be a required field for maintainers alongside GitHub IDs.
  - Concerns raised regarding privacy, personal identity linking, and Linux Foundation guidance.
  - Proposed compromise: Discord ID is optional but incentivized (e.g., visibility in Discord channels).
  - Scope field and "global maintainer" designation were clarified.

- **HIP-1195 Vote:**
  - Motion made by Alex and seconded by Richard.
  - Unanimous approval recorded.

- **SDK Governance & HIP Process:**
  - Debate on whether SDK-related changes should require HIPs.
  - Keith Kowal advocated for consistent process: significant SDK changes should use HIPs to inform the community and maintain governance parity.
  - Hendrik emphasized that minor or non-breaking changes (e.g., new utility methods) shouldn't require formal HIPs.
  - Suggestions from Richard and Diane to anchor HIP requirements to the Technical Compatibility Kit (TCK) relevance or potential for breaking changes.
  - May Chan and Milan Wiercx emphasized the importance of communicating changes that impact application development.
  - Agreement to continue discussions via GitHub threads and revisit in future meetings.

- **Go SDK Proposal (Next Week):**
  - Georgi, Stoyan, and Brandon will propose a Golang SDK version of the relay.
  - Issue will be opened ahead of next week's meeting for review.

## Key Decisions

- **HIP-1195 Approved**
  - The proposal passed with unanimous consent.
  
- **Maintainers Policy Deferred**
  - No formal decision on Discord ID requirement; further consultation with the Linux Foundation recommended.

## Action Items

- Hendrik to:
  - Follow up with Jessica on voting eligibility and Helios sync.
  - Clarify Discord ID privacy concerns with the Linux Foundation.
  - Coordinate on updating the maintainers' file format and scope definitions.
- May to forward account details to Hendrik regarding adopter voting issues.
- Georgi/Team to submit Go SDK issue by next meeting.
- Hendrik and Keith to continue GitHub discussion to clarify when SDK changes need HIPs.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
