# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting Minutes

**Date:** Tuesday, February 11, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET / 15:00 UTC  
**Zoom Recording:** [Watch Here](https://zoom.us/rec/share/X2PQkweiHnKbowERb1sLfeQ_1HlaqnclfZNX_NeNhotJ3a29A6M306GcYicn7pXq.hKWJNaIonWXpd4BR)

---

## TSC Attendees

- Hendrik Ebbers
- Alex Popowycz
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Leemon Baird
- Richard Bair

## Guests

- Mark Blackman
- Brandon Davenport
- Diane Mueller
- Sophie Bulloch
- Mercy Boma
- Sumabala Nair
- Rob Walworth
- Angelina Ceppaluni
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Keith Kowal
- Simi Hunjan
- Edward Wertz
- Roger Barker

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Meeting Summary

The meeting opened with approval of previous minutes (pending review). Key updates were provided on several project transitions—including the mirror node explorer, Rust SDK license concerns, and Hiero docs transfer—with a consensus node move scheduled imminently. A detailed discussion clarified aspects of the daily rewards mechanism for active consensus nodes, leading to an action item to formalize the proposed changes in a vote at the next meeting. Rob Walworth presented a new SDK design document template, prompting constructive feedback regarding parameter specification and public review via GitHub. The committee then engaged in an in-depth discussion on the criteria for transferring projects to Hiero, debating the balance between specificity and future generalization. Several action items were agreed upon, including the initiation of a GitHub PR for the design docs and revisions to the project acceptance guidelines. The meeting concluded with plans to finalize votes and updates in the next call.

---

## Agenda

1. Approve previous minutes (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/95 and https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/97)
2. Update on project transition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md)
3. Review of HIP-1064 (https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1064)
4. SDK Design docs repo (Simi / Rob will present that idea)
5. Open discussion: What type of projects do we want to have under the hiero org and what criteria should be required for a project to join Hiero (see https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/discussions/41)
7. Any other business (AOB)

## Minutes

1. **Approval of Previous Minutes**  
   - Review and discussion of pending approvals; note that three previous minutes are awaiting merge pending community review.

2. **Update on Project Transitions**  
   - Mirror Node Explorer: Status update—dependencies now green and ready for transfer.  
   - Rust SDK: Ongoing discussion regarding an SSL-related license issue (a transitive dependency) with plans to evaluate its necessity; update expected next week.  
   - Hiero docs Repository: Successful transfer from Hedera Docs; documentation team has begun work; pending clarification with the Eclipse Foundation regarding GitBook integration.  
   - Consensus Node Transfer: Scheduled to occur on Thursday, February 13, 2025.  
   - Additional brief mention of GitHub Marketplace questions for the GitHub Action transfer, which is deferred until staffing is increased.

3. **Daily Rewards for Active Nodes**  
   - Discussion Points:
     - Subtraction of Node Fees: Emphasis that fee subtraction applies as an average across nodes rather than per individual node fee.
     - Minimum Node Rewards: Debate on whether a minimum reward should be guaranteed or simply capped by the account balance; consensus that “guarantees” depend on available funds.
   - Action Item:  
     - The committee agreed that the proposed clarifications on subtracting node fees and adjusting the minimum node rewards will be put to a formal vote in next week’s meeting.
     - Several members, including Alex and Leemon, provided advance yes votes indicating support for these changes.

4. **SDK Design Docs Repository Update**
   - Presentation by Rob Walworth:  
     - Introduced a new design document template aimed at standardizing documentation for new HIPs and SDK features.
     - Walked through sections of the template: summary, new API definitions, updated APIs, changes to SDK retry behavior, internal SDK changes, test plan, TCK (Technology Compatibility Kit) notes, and example sections.
   - Community Feedback:  
     - Sumabala and others suggested including explicit parameter details (e.g., required vs. optional, default values) and references to why updates are being made.
     - Discussion on making the design docs public via a GitHub pull request for community review, with the goal of having the PR live within two days in time for the upcoming Hiero webinar.
   - Action Item: Rob (with support from Hendrik and others) will work to open the PR and facilitate community discussion.

5. **Discussion on Criteria for Project Transfer to Hiero** 
   - Draft Guidelines Review:  
     - Hendrik presented a draft outlining criteria for projects being transferred to Hiero, including acceptance pre-requisites and an illustration of project types.
     - Key discussion points focused on:
       - Whether projects must be platform-agnostic (e.g., “Hedera-only” wallets) versus allowing initially specific implementations that can evolve into multi-platform solutions.
       - The importance of not over-prescribing requirements to avoid discouraging contributions.
       - Suggestions to remove a bullet point that strictly prohibits platform-specific projects, with proposals to add clarifying language about future contributions to generalize a project.
   - Community Input:  
     - Diane, Richard, and Leemon engaged in a robust discussion comparing Hiero’s structure to larger ecosystems (e.g., CNCF) and emphasized that while projects might start specific, they must be capable of integration with the Hiero core.
   - Action Item:  
     - Revise the draft guidelines by removing the overly restrictive bullet and incorporating community-provided verbiage (including potential “kingmaker” language).  
     - Final language to be revisited in the next meeting for a formal vote.

6. **Additional Discussion & Closing Remarks**  
   - Open Q&A on any remaining issues.  
   - Confirmation that next week’s TSC call will include a formal vote on the daily rewards clarifications and revised project transfer guidelines.
   - Meeting adjourned with thanks for the extended discussion and community input.

---

**Prepared by:** Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph