# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** The TSC approved past meeting minutes, reviewed major updates on project transitions from Hedera and non-Hedera sources, discussed the Jumbo Ethereum Transaction HIP proposal (HIP-1086), and reviewed governance processes, including elections and repository rules. Initial consensus was reached on key structural and procedural changes, including a new repo for SDK collaboration and transitioning publishing namespaces to "org.hiro."

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero Project  
**Date:** March 25, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/b6zvEFAdiix2Y7WF2agZDIwl3hgIHjvDHCjHYGnBgWbBTjboYAgEYwKnp77mVHMM.Xnp5_wMKj4yvdWfu)

## Attendees

### TSC Members:
- Alex Popowycz
- Richard Bair
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Hendrik Ebbers

### Guests:
- Brandon Davenport
- Nana Essilfie-Conduah
- Andrew Brandt
- Diane Mueller
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Mark Blackman
- May Chan
- Mercy Boma
- Pavel Borisov
- Rob Walworth
- Roger Barker
- Sophie

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Agenda Items

1. Approve previous minutes
2. Update on project transition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/community-transition.md)
3. Update on election process (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/elections.md & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/ADOPTERS.md)
4. Additional topics:
   - Jumbo Ethereum Transactions HIP (HIP-1086)
   - Repository protection rules
   - Publishing and vendor neutrality
   - SDK Collaboration Hub repo
   - Maintainer roles and responsibilities

## Meeting Summary

- **Meeting Summaries:** Past minutes updated and pushed by Brandon Davenport. TSC members asked to review and approve the PRs.
- **Transition Update:**
  - Hedera projects: JSON-RPC and HIP repos migrated; next up: solo and DID-related projects.
  - Non-Hedera: Three projects already moved. Discussion on how to track potential projects for transition.
- **Election Process:**
  - Adopters file now live; needed to vote for end-user seat on TSC.
  - Nominations open, with at least two candidates already submitted.
  - Voting scheduled for May 7â€“May 31.
- **HIP-1086 (Jumbo Ethereum Transactions):**
  - Presented by Nana. Proposal enables support for large Ethereum txns without needing file service.
  - Limits configurable for size and rate; will improve fairness and reduce operator costs.
  - TSC approved the direction of the HIP (first phase of new two-step HIP process).
- **Repository Rules:**
  - Jessica presented default branch protection rules (e.g., 1 approval required, title checks, etc.).
  - Flexibility granted to certain repos (e.g., minutes repo).
  - No formal vote required; consensus reached.
- **SDK Collaboration Hub:**
  - New repo to house shared SDK metadata and practices approved without objections.
- **Publishing Strategy:**
  - Roger presented proposal to shift namespace to `org.hiro` on Maven Central and `hiro-ledger` on npm.
  - Dual-publishing technically possible but complex; preferred to fully switch over with notice.

## Key Decisions

- Meeting minutes PRs updated and ready for review.
- HIP-1086 direction approved by TSC.
- SDK Collaboration Hub repository creation approved.
- Repository protection rules accepted for implementation.

## Action Items

- **TSC members** to review and approve pending meeting minutes PRs.
- **Community members** to add themselves to the [Adopters list](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/ADOPTERS.md) if eligible to vote.
- **Nominations** for TSC election encouraged before voting in May.
- **Jessica** to begin implementing repo protection rules.
- **Roger** to continue planning publishing transition under `org.hiro`.
- **Hendrik** to set up SDK collaboration repo and ensure community alignment.
- **Mark Blackman** to be added to social/content coordination meetings.

## Materials

- [Transition Overview](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md)
- [Community Transition Table](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/community-transition.md)
- [Elections Process](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/elections.md)
- [Adopters List](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/ADOPTERS.md)
- [HIP-1086 Draft](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hip/blob/main/hips/HIP-1086.md)
- [Branch Protection Rules Discussion](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/discussions/65)

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph