# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** TSC reviewed four new project proposals (Hiero Contracts, Hiero Ethereum Client Spec Tests, Identity Collaboration Hub, and HOL HCS Specs). With no quorum, voting is deferred to an async ballot or the next meeting. Community is asked to review HIP-1313 and proposal slide decks.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** November 25, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** https://zoom.us/rec/share/idybVxJcDUTKtMyesnpNXsnTivlWdpwFde0esVCwwl189xNEegh61Kp9jceL_-2U.PQtS55TdQDapH9Gz

---

## TSC Attendees

- Hendrik Ebbers
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Michael Kantor
- Alexander Popowycz

## Guests

- Keith Kowal
- Diane Mueller
- Fernando Paris
- Will VJ
- Ian (full name not stated)
- Sophie Bulloch
- Ashe (full name not stated)

---

## Agenda Items

- Approve previous minutes  
- Any updates/events from communities or members?  
- HIPs — project board: [Hiero HIPs Project](https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/projects/31/views/1?sortedBy%5Bdirection%5D=asc&sortedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status)  
- Project proposals presentations:
  - [Hiero Contracts Repository](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/248)
  - [Hiero Ethereum Client Spec (tests) Repository](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/249)
  - [Identity Collaboration Hub](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/263)
  - [hiero-hol-hcs-specs](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/261)
- Any other business (AOB)

## Guests

As every Hiero meeting the TSC meeting is a public meeting and everybody can attend it.  
You can find all the information about the TSC meetings and all other Hiero meetings in our [public calender](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meetings/hiero).

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **Minutes approved:** Prior meeting minutes are merged and up to date.
- **Community update:** Marketing meeting follows immediately after this call (see public calendar).
- **HIPs:** No HIPs scheduled for review; **community asked to review HIP-1313** ahead of upcoming discussion.
- **Proposal #1 — Hiero Contracts repository (presented by Fernando Paris):**  
  - New repo to publish **system contract interfaces, validated wrappers, and hook reference implementations** for Hiero/Hedera EVM.  
  - Distributed as an **NPM package** for standard Solidity workflows (Foundry/Hardhat).  
  - **Not dependent** on OpenZeppelin by default; intent is to mimic its developer experience.  
  - Scope excludes unrelated community contracts (example: LayerZero OTF code would remain elsewhere).  
  - Outreach: plan to promote through LFDT/webinars and foundation channels.
- **Proposal #2 — Hiero Ethereum Client Spec Tests repo (presented by Fernando Paris):**  
  - Fork and adapt the **Ethereum execution-spec tests** (Python) to run against Hiero for **EVM-compat regression**.  
  - Clearly mark/skip unsupported EIPs; some tests involve non-Solidity languages (e.g., Vyper) as part of the harness.
- **Proposal #3 — Identity Collaboration Hub (presented by Keith Kowal & Diane Mueller):**  
  - A central **hub repo** (modeled after SDK Collaboration Hub) for identity **architecture docs, standards work, non-SDK utilities/PoCs, documentation consolidation, and discussions**.  
  - **Out of scope:** SDKs that publish artifacts (e.g., to NPM/PyPI) remain in dedicated repos.  
  - Working guideline agreed in discussion: **no publishable artifacts** (e.g., NPM libraries) originate from this hub; if a code contribution matures, maintainers propose a separate repo via TSC.
  - Existing “Hiero Identity Standards” repo to be **collapsed into the hub**.
- **Proposal #4 — HOL HCS Specs repo (presented by Michael Kantor):**  
  - Donate **Hashgraph Online HCS specifications** (application-layer patterns over HCS; e.g., **HCS-1** for on-chain file chunking/compression with ordered assembly) into a **Hiero repo**.  
  - Specs governed by the existing HOL process (draft→publish) while living under Hiero.  
  - **Naming** to be refined (acronym-heavy); preference for a clearer repo name.  
  - **Alignment with HIPs:** consensus to create a **pointer HIP per HCS spec** (HIP file includes the canonical link/commit to the spec) rather than a single index HIP, improving visibility and version traceability.
- **Voting/quorum:** No quorum today; items will proceed to **asynchronous vote** or a vote at the **next TSC meeting** after slide links are shared.

---

## Key Decisions

- **Proceed with proposals to vote asynchronously or next meeting** due to lack of quorum.
- **Identity Collaboration Hub guardrail:** Do **not** publish package artifacts from the hub repo; promote such work to separate repos when appropriate.
- **HCS specs + HIP alignment:** Adopt a **per-spec pointer HIP** approach; the canonical spec remains in the donated repo, with HIPs providing reference, visibility, and version history.

---

## Action Items

- **Hendrik Ebbers:** Start TSC channel thread with proposal links/recording; arrange **async vote** or schedule votes for the **Dec 2, 2025** meeting.  
- **Fernando Paris:** Share slide deck links; prepare initial repo structures for Contracts and EVM Spec Tests.  
- **Keith Kowal & Diane Mueller:** Update Identity Collaboration Hub docs to reflect artifact-publishing guardrail; share in identity working group.  
- **Michael Kantor:** Update proposal (repo naming, pointer-HIP model) and share revised deck.  
- **All TSC & community:** Review **HIP-1313** and comment.  
- **Everyone interested:** Join the **Hiero Marketing** meeting (immediately after this call; see public calendar).

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Product, Hgraph
