# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** The TSC approved **HIP-1300** (larger transaction sizes for governance/privileged accounts). **HIP-1299** (node account ⇄ node ID changes) was discussed at length and deferred for one more week to address open questions. Strong momentum on Hacktoberfest/Good First Issues; maintainers encouraged to keep creating/curating issues. AOB: guidance shared on **EVM transaction simulation** via JSON-RPC Relay and SDKs.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** October 21, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM Eastern Time  
**Recording:** https://zoom.us/rec/share/4Tk_rWdSjmiZRw3yWpHiiv46waJmOR9YTbeI2p7sBb1V1DNS8zNmT440S_nY5Mrt.TcFH-euxi1LBoE7j

---

## TSC Attendees

- Hendrik Ebbers
- Richard Bair
- Stoyan Panayotov
- Alex Popowycz
- Michael Kantor
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn
- Brandon Davenport
- Georgi Lazarov

## Guests

- Nana Essilfie-Conduah
- Pavel Borisov
- Tayebwa Noah
- Mark Blackman
- Amanda Clark
- Andrew Brandt
- Angelina Ceppaluni
- Diane Mueller
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Jessie Ssebuliba
- Joseph Sinclair
- Keith Kowal
- May Chan
- Michael Garber

---

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- HIPs ([Project](https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/projects/31/views/1?sortedBy%5Bdirection%5D=asc&sortedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status))
- Hacktoberfest & Good first issues update
- Any other business (AOB)

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **Housekeeping & calendar**
  - Reminder: all Hiero meetings are public and listed on the community calendar.
  - New meetings highlighted:
    - **Bi-weekly Hiero Marketing** meeting (timed alongside TSC cadence).
    - **Monthly Maintainer Community Call** for cross-project topics (security, elections, LFDT updates, newcomer experience, etc.).

- **HIPs**
  - **HIP-1299** (mapping around node account IDs / node IDs):
    - Discussion focused on one-to-one vs many-to-one account mapping, operational implications, and coupling with a forthcoming HIP to use **node ID** (not node account ID) as the primary key in SDKs.
    - Acknowledged breadth of impact (SDKs, consensus node, apps assuming uniqueness of account IDs) and the need for adequate lead time once a design is finalized.
    - Additional clarification requested on **receiver-signature-required** behavior for **node fees** (HIP text already addresses **node rewards**).
    - **Outcome:** **Deferred** one week. Contributors to continue discussion and add comments directly to the PR.

  - **HIP-1300** (allow larger transaction sizes for governance/privileged accounts; implementation to be configuration-driven by deployments):
    - Confirmed TSC should vote on the **policy/semantics** rather than deep implementation details.
    - **Vote:** Stoyan Panayotov — Yes; Georgi Lazarov — Yes; Brandon Davenport — Yes; Milan Wiercx van Rhijn — Yes; Michael Kantor — Yes; Alex Popowycz — Yes; Richard Bair — Yes; **Hendrik Ebbers — Abstain** (absent from prior presentation).  
      **Result: Approved.**

- **Hacktoberfest / Good First Issues**
  - Strong uptick in labeled issues, assignments, and merged PRs across projects.
  - **Hiero Python SDK** called out for exemplary volume/throughput and new contributors (>30 contributors total referenced on the call).
  - Maintainers encouraged to:
    - Keep creating **Good First Issue candidates** using the shared guidelines.
    - Join Monday review sessions.
    - Continue beyond October to sustain contributor growth.

- **Any Other Business — Transaction simulation**
  - **EVM smart contracts:** Supported via **JSON-RPC Relay** (mirror-node EVM executes calls for gas estimation and result simulation without state changes).
  - **SDKs:** Capability exists to simulate/estimate gas; documentation improvements in flight (Keith to share reference/ticket).
  - **Native (non-EVM) transactions:** No equivalent general simulation facility today.
  - **Follow-ups:** Richard to connect **May Chan** with **Fernando Paris** (JSON-RPC Relay POC). Keith to send SDK simulation docs/ticket.

---

## Key Decisions

- **Approved:** **HIP-1300** — authorize larger transaction sizes for governance/privileged accounts (configurable by deployment).  
- **Deferred:** **HIP-1299** — revisit next TSC after clarifications on mapping constraints and fee/rewards behavior; maintain active discussion on PR.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
