# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** The TSC celebrated Hiero’s graduation under LF Decentralized Trust (first to do so, achieved within ~1 year). September TSC election kicked off (nominations Aug 26–Sep 9; vote after Sep 10). New governance docs are nearing merge (Maintainer FAQ, additional contributor roles, project proposal template). Agreement in principle to handle specs via HIPs, with Keith to draft a HIP for an anoncreds spec.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** August 26, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00–11:07 ET  
**Recording:** https://zoom.us/rec/share/YDevGwL-pzkl-adazvrN2f6P90_X5dx_5_skJjxEmkUHK68d63NtEbetArArDwnM.xBIgGpWISuo6SUXU

---

## TSC Attendees

- Richard Bair  
- Leemon Baird  
- Brandon Davenport  
- Hendrik Ebbers  
- Michael Kantor  
- Alexander Popowycz  
- Stoyan Panayotov  
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn

## Guests

- Alexander Shenshin  
- Amanda Clark  
- Andrew Brandt  
- Diane Mueller
- DJ (B4E)  
- Georgi Lazarov  
- Giuseppe Bertone  
- Jason Fabritz  
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Kiran Pachhai  
- Mark Blackman  
- May Chan  
- Michael Garber  
- Michael Garber 
- Noah  
- Pavel Borisov  
- Roger Barker
- Sophie  
- Keith Kowal 

---

## Agenda Items

- Approve previous minutes  
- HIPs ([Project board](https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/projects/31/views/1?sortedBy%5Bdirection%5D=asc&sortedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status))  
- September Election (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/tree/main/elections/nominees/sep-2025-election)  
- Hiero Graduation (https://github.com/LF-Decentralized-Trust/project-proposals/blob/gh-pages/proposals/graduated/hiero.md)  
- Hiero Maintainer FAQ (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/pull/361)  
- Additional Roles for supporting onboarding & management (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/pull/360)  
- Project Proposal Template (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/pull/367)  
- Any other business (AOB)

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **Graduation announcement:** Hiero has **graduated** under the Linux Foundation Decentralized Trust—reportedly the **first** LFDT project to move from incubation to graduated, within the project’s first year. Diane and Jessica commended the team; a short blog post is queued, with a follow-up technical “year in releases” post requested.  
- **Maintaining status:** Expect continued focus on **OpenSSF Scorecards** and GHA Insights; some repositories (e.g., HIPs) naturally score lower due to long-lived PRs. LFDT/TAC maintenance standards will be defined; Jessica/Hendrik to shepherd.  
- **HIPs workflow:** One HIP under vote remains in its 14-day review window (return next week); another is still in development amid active comments.  
- **Process clarity for HIPs:**  
  - Any author may request agenda time when a HIP is presentation-ready.  
  - TSC discussion typically lasts **at least two weeks** before a vote; earlier or later is possible based on readiness.  
  - Approval does **not** obligate any party to implement; contributors implement according to priorities (open-source ethos).  
  - Multi-component HIPs (node + SDKs) should coordinate via the **SDK Hub**.  
- **Lifecycle hygiene:** Discussion to keep the HIP list “clean.” Consensus that a **“Replaced”** status/transition (including from **Approved → Replaced**) is useful where newer work supersedes prior HIPs.  
- **Governance docs (PRs):**  
  - **Maintainer/Committer FAQ** drafted to address organizational and role questions—especially for contributors employed by member companies.  
  - **New contributor roles** proposed: **Project Triage Contributor** and **Project Board Contributor** for non-coding PM/PL tasks (assigning issues, board curation). Admission envisioned via TSC approval; eligibility guidance tied to LFDT member org employment.  
  - **Project Proposal Template** adds required metadata (OpenSSF, releases, contributors, architecture, license, scope) to support TSC decisions.  
- **Elections (September):**  
  - Seat currently held by **George Spasov** is up for election.  
  - **Nominations:** Aug 26–Sep 9 (self-nominations allowed).  
  - **Presentation of nominees:** Sep 10 TSC meeting.  
  - **Voting window:** 12 days after Sep 10.  
  - **Announcement:** Sep 23 TSC meeting.  
  - Jessica (LF) will run the secure voting tooling.  
  - Request to **clearly communicate eligibility** (who votes, who is eligible) in election materials to maximize participation.  
- **AOB – Digital Identity / Specs:**  
  - Keith outlined DID (did:hedera) method/spec (currently in Hashgraph) and new **anoncreds** method/spec with planned Python/JS libs in Hiero.  
  - Proposal to host such **specifications** in a Hiero repo (possibly a single **“hiero-specifications”** repo with subfolders).  
  - Richard requested broader socialization/clarity on how specs relate to the **HIP** system.  
  - Working direction: **introduce specs via HIPs** (HIP proposes adding the spec; upon approval, publish/host spec in the repo following identity-standards conventions).

---

## Presentations (optional)

- **Digital Identity Specifications (Keith Kowal):** Overview of DID method and proposed anoncreds spec; request to create a Hiero-hosted specifications repo, with libraries adhering to those specs in Python/JS. Discussion converged on using HIPs to introduce specs, then hosting in a consolidated repo.

---

## Key Decisions

- **Acknowledge/celebrate graduation** under LFDT; ongoing compliance and scorecard work to continue.  
- **HIP review cadence:** Maintain a minimum two-week discussion period before votes (flexible based on readiness).  
- **HIP lifecycle improvement:** Agreement in principle to recognize **“Replaced”** as a post-approval status (e.g., **Approved → Replaced**) to reduce backlog clutter.  
- **Specs pathway:** General agreement to **route new specifications through HIPs** prior to hosting in a Hiero specifications repository.

---

## Action Items

- **Hendrik & Jessica:** Publish graduation blog on hiero.org; prepare/coordinate a technical “year in releases” blog.  
- **Jessica (LF) & TAC:** Define/communicate **maintenance standards** for graduated status; continue OpenSSF/GHA scorecard improvements.  
- **Richard/Mark:** Revisit the HIP under vote after its 14-day window; update the HIPs board accordingly.  
- **All contributors:**  
  - Submit **TSC nominations by Sep 9**; attend Sep 10 for nominee presentations; vote during the 12-day window.  
  - Review and comment on governance PRs: **#361** (Maintainer FAQ), **#360** (New roles), **#367** (Project proposal template).  
- **Hendrik & Jessica:** Draft a concise **TSC Voting Guide** (who can nominate, who can vote, seat types) for election docs.  
- **Sophie / SDK Hub leads:** Add **review workflow & HIP implementation** best-practices discussion to an upcoming SDK community meeting.  
- **Keith Kowal:** Draft a **HIP** to introduce the **anoncreds specification** and propose creation/structure of a **Hiero specifications** repo.

---

## Active TSC member state

[ADD HERE]

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
