# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** The TSC reviewed HIP status (Quiescence approved; “Simple Fees” still under discussion), kicked off logistics for the September TSC election (nominations close Sept 9; voting starts Sept 10), and heard a proposal to migrate the new TSS cryptography library to the Hiero org for eventual node dependency—targeting a vote next meeting.

---

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero  
**Date:** September 2, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** https://zoom.us/rec/share/jsp0haZqovhud0ETqVkMY9o8YBq47kC6GiR1TPZaIgMYA9Si594MQ_k4VgA_T2Vq.BMtdue5NzP5umpuN

---

## TSC Attendees

- Richard Bair  
- Leemon Baird  
- Brandon Davenport  
- Hendrik Ebbers  
- Michael Kantor  
- Alexander Popowycz  
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn  

## Guests

- Mark Blackman
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Diane Mueller
- Michael Garber  
- Jeff Morgan
- Need to add others...

---

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- HIPs ([Project](https://github.com/orgs/hiero-ledger/projects/31/views/1?sortedBy%5Bdirection%5D=asc&sortedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=Status))
- September Election (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/tree/main/elections/nominees/sep-2025-election)
- Project proposal: Hiero-Cryptography (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/220)
- Any other business (AOB)

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Summary

- **HIPs overview:**  
  - **Quiescence:** Consensus that it has already been approved; move the card/status to **Approved**.  
  - **Simple Fees (HIP-1261):** Ongoing discussion in the PR; not ready to vote during this meeting.  
- **Upcoming TSC Election (September 2025):**  
  - **Timeline:** Nominations close **Sept 9**; voting opens **Sept 10** for all Hiero maintainers.  
  - **Current nominations:** Two noted—**Georgi** (merged) and **May** (PR merge issue but content OK).  
  - **Outreach plan:** Jessica & Hendrik to compile the **maintainer list** (for voter eligibility), send email invites, and announce in Discord and internal channels. A **Hiero blog post** is suggested; volunteers welcome.  
  - **Town Hall idea:** Richard proposed a maintainer **candidate town hall**. General support to host it either during a TSC or community meeting.  
  - **Livestreaming:** Strong preference for **StreamYard** (ease-of-use, multistream to YouTube/LinkedIn/X; downloadable recordings). **Zoom livestream** considered a backup.  
    - Use the **LFDT/Hiero YouTube** account for continuity with existing meeting recordings.  
    - **Jessica** to check LF tooling and coordinate with **Michael Kantor** and **Brandon** on platform/logistics.  
    - Note: Hiero currently lacks an **X/Twitter** account; agreement to pursue; Brandon offered help.  
- **New project proposal – TSS cryptography library migration:**  
  - **Context:** A new **Threshold Signature Scheme (TSS)** with **aggregated (BLS-based) signatures** and a **recursive address-book proof (SNARK/RAPS)**. Purpose: allow mirror nodes/verifiers to validate a block with a single network signature and embedded proof, reducing complexity and end-to-end latency.  
  - **Ask:** When ready, migrate the TSS repo from Hedera to the **Hiero** GitHub org, since it will be a **critical dependency** of the consensus node.  
  - **Discussion:**  
    - Scope is Hiero-specific vs. general crypto libs (e.g., Bouncy Castle). TSS here comprises “fragments” tailored to Hiero (aggregated signatures, address-book proof, verification glue).  
    - Future cross-ledger work (**Clipper**) may become more broadly reusable; TSS library itself is best incubated in Hiero.  
  - **Next step:** Present today; **target a vote next meeting** (Jeff Morgan to attend).  
- **Governance data cleanup:**  
  - **Maintainer affiliations** in the governance repo need correction (e.g., Hedera vs. Hashgraph; LimeChain references).  
  - **Jessica & Hendrik** to audit and update across repos; necessary also for election voter rolls.  
  - Milan ran a quick query indicating **~68 unique maintainers** (to be validated).  
- **Anniversary note:** One-year milestone approaching; light discussion about a (virtual) cake.

---

## Presentations (optional)

- **Overview: TSS cryptography library migration** — *Presenter: Mark Blackman.*  
  High-level architecture of aggregated signatures (BLS with weighted partials), recursive address-book proof (SNARK), and verification utilities that together enable single-artifact block attestation and more efficient verification for mirror nodes and downstream consumers.

---

## Key Decisions

- **Quiescence HIP**: Affirmed as approved; update project board/status accordingly.  
- **Minutes PR process**: Stop using “draft” for minutes PRs; proceed with normal PRs under simplified charter.

---

## Action Items

- **Election logistics**
  - **Jessica & Hendrik:** Compile authoritative **maintainer list**; set up voter notifications; post announcements (Discord, internal channels).  
  - **Blog post:** Draft/coordinate a brief **Hiero blog** announcement about the election window (volunteers welcome).  
  - **Town hall:** Scope and schedule a **maintainer town hall** for nominees (consider TSC or community hour).  
  - **Livestreaming:**  
    - **Jessica:** Confirm **LF streaming tooling** and permissions for the LFDT/Hiero **YouTube** channel; coordinate with **Michael Kantor** & **Brandon** on StreamYard vs. Zoom-live fallback.  
    - **Brandon (with others):** Assist in setting up/operationalizing **StreamYard** if chosen; explore creating an official **X** account.  
- **Governance data**
  - **Jessica & Hendrik:** Audit and correct **maintainer affiliations** across repos; align with election eligibility.  
- **HIPs**
  - **TSS migration:** Bring back **for vote next meeting** (Jeff Morgan to represent).  
  - **Simple Fees (HIP-1261):** Re-assess readiness for a **vote next week**; incorporate PR discussion outcomes.  
- **Minutes/PRs**
  - **Brandon:** Convert existing draft minutes PRs to standard PRs; continue with normal PR flow.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
