# Hiero Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

**TL;DR:** The Hiero TSC reviewed project transitions, approved revised timelines for upcoming TSC elections, and discussed structuring a second GitHub organization for ecosystem projects. Decisions were made on contributor definitions and election criteria, while updates were shared regarding SDK templates and repository management practices.

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero Technical Steering Committee (TSC)  
**Date:** March 11, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM EDT  
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/KE4e-glF6l0JnSXYNxKhEXQy8gub6pkPmSZJgT1MxoOSY6wv_lkyPsl745wIWEWi.2KA4ls1TkJ6MHhco)

## Attendees

- Leemon Baird
- Diane Mueller
- Richard Bair
- Brandon Davenport
- Keith Kowal
- May Chan
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Alex Popowycz
- Roger Barker

## Agenda Items

- Approve previous minutes 
- Update on project transition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md)
- Update on election process
- Update on SDK Design Templates
- Suggestion for a second GitHub repo (Hiero ecosystem) and a split between core and ecosystem projects
- Any other business (AOB)

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy)
and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

<img width="945" alt="Code of Conduct" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3a187bc9-65ae-461e-bb46-7ce0db8e32cf">

## Meeting Summary

- **Project Transition:** Richard Bair provided a status update on the migration of various SDKs and nodes to the Hiero organization. While most SDKs and TCKs have transitioned, some components like the relay and certain SDKs (e.g., Python DID SDK) still need attention. Diane Mueller volunteered to help with updates via pull requests, and a conversation was held about eventually distinguishing community vs. Hedera-originated repositories.

- **Election Process:** The election timeline was revised due to earlier delays. Nominations will run from March 17 to April 30, and voting will occur from May 7 to May 31. The group agreed contributors should be defined as individuals who submitted pull requests merged into any project repo.

- **SDK Design Templates:** Hendrik reported that the SDK working group deferred discussions until the next community meeting. New GitHub Discussions are live to gather input on repository naming and content standards.

- **Proposal for Second GitHub Organization:** Hendrik proposed creating a new GitHub org (`Hiero-ecosystem`) to house ecosystem tools and projects separate from core ledger components. The group agreed in principle but deferred a formal vote until a clear written proposal is circulated outlining scope, entry criteria, and governance rules. Richard reserved the org name.

- **Security Practices Discussion:** Keith raised the question of differentiated security standards for ecosystem projects. Hendrik pointed to a new GitHub discussion initiated by Jessica from LF outlining best practices. The group agreed further discussion is needed.

- **Outreach and Communication:** Diane volunteered to draft a blog post announcing the TSC elections and collaborate with Hendrik on publication and promotion through LF channels.

## Key Decisions

- Revised the election nomination and voting timeline:
  - Nominations: March 17 – April 30
  - Voting: May 7 – May 31
- Approved use of GitHub data (merged PRs) to define eligible contributors.
- Agreement in principle to create a second GitHub org (`Hiero-ecosystem`) with a formal proposal due before the next TSC meeting.

## Action Items

- **Richard Bair:** Update election proposal PR with new dates and send to TSC for final review.
- **Diane Mueller:** Draft blog post announcing TSC elections; contribute to SDK repo transitions.
- **Hendrik Ebbers:** Prepare written proposal for new GitHub org and create a separate file for community repo transitions.
- **Diane & Hendrik:** Coordinate on managing SDK repo updates and broader repo visibility.
- **All:** Review and contribute to GitHub Discussions on SDK repo structure and project security standards.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
