# Hiero Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

**TL;DR:** The Hiero TSC discussed several major milestones, including the successful transition of Hedera projects to Hiero, the onboarding of two new projects, election deadlines for new TSC seats, a security policy update, and governance documentation for maintainers and committers. Important progress was made on voting procedures, security guidelines, and project governance, but further discussion is needed around SDK application HIPs.

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero Project, Linux Foundation Decentralized Trust  
**Date:** April 22, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM ET  
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/2dP6fdClTpBSWAMu1qKw9aJ8ndZEuRnmyVtHevbyhuxCj0_0lvAvqrxfOcoD5dLZ.yCN05zeEH9lWdtUl)

## TSC Attendees

- Leemon Baird
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Alex Popowycz
- Richard Bair

## Guests

- Robert Linton
- Roger Barker
- Sophie Bulloch
- Weijia Zhang
- Brandon Davenport
- Diane Mueller
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Andrew Brandt
- Keith Kowal
- Krystal I
- Mark Blackman
- May Chan
- Michael Kantor
- Michiel (no last name shown)
- Milan Wiercx van Rhijn
- Pavel Borisov
- Rob Walworth
- Weijia Zhang

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

## Agenda Items

- Approve previous minutes 
- Update on project transition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/community-transition.md)
- Update on election process (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/elections.md & https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/blob/main/elections/ADOPTERS.md)
- Update of OpenElements/hiero-enterprise-java and hashgraph-online/standards-sdk as possible Hiero projects (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/111, https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/issues/109)
- Update on Hiero blog / Hiero Maintainer's Corner (https://hiero.org/blog/)
- SECURITY.md and Security Team (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/pull/212/files)
- Rules, groups and roles definition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/governance/pull/211)
- Update/Discussion: Is the Application HIP process the correct workflow to SDK projects and other standards (like Hashgraph Online)
- Dual publishing for SDKs (under 2 com.hedera and org.hiero namespace) for a more easy migration
- Any other business (AOB)

## Meeting Summary

- **Previous Minutes Approval**: Some PRs pending additional approvals. Brandon will check PR 95.
- **Project Transition**: Transition of Hedera projects to Hiero completed successfully.
- **New Project Onboarding**:
  - **Hashgraph Online** and **Open Elements Hiero Enterprise Java** were approved to join Hiero (pending final repo naming adjustments).
- **TSC Elections**:
  - Deadline for nominations: April 30.
  - Guides and videos are being published to assist new nominees.
- **Blog Naming Issue**:
  - Linux Foundation raised concerns about branding. Proposal to rename Hiero blog to "Maintainers' Corner" was discussed but opposed by Diane Mueller.
  - Jessica will escalate the concern internally at LF for review.
- **Security Policy**:
  - New security guidelines were presented.
  - Discussion about integrating Hiero projects into existing security processes (e.g., Immunefi for bug bounties).
  - Plan to add security.md references across all project repositories.
- **Groups and Roles Documentation**:
  - New governance document for maintainers, committers, and contributors drafted.
  - TSC members asked to review it before voting in next weekâ€™s meeting.
- **HIPs for SDK Changes**:
  - Ongoing discussion whether SDK changes should require Application HIPs.
  - Agreement to continue discussions in next week's meeting.

## Key Decisions

- Approval to onboard two new projects:
  - **Hashgraph Online** (under a new name, to be discussed).
  - **Open Elements Hiero Enterprise Java**.
- Agreement to continue current use of the blog as-is pending final decision from the LF.
- Confirmed April 30 as the nomination deadline for TSC elections.

## Action Items

- **Brandon Davenport**: Review and finalize approval on PR 95.
- **Jessica Gonzalez**:  
  - Follow up with LF leadership regarding blog naming conventions.  
  - Proceed with security policy implementation across Hiero projects.  
  - Coordinate with Keith Kowal on security reporting alignment (Immunefi vs. LF bounty programs).
- **All TSC Members**: Review the Groups and Roles governance PR before the next meeting.
- **Michael Kantor**: Propose a new name for the "Standards SDK" repository.


---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph