# Hiero Technical Steering Committee Meeting

**TL;DR:** The meeting centered on the continued migration of Hedera repositories to the Hiero organization, progress toward community repo onboarding, finalization of election documentation, and infrastructure around repo governance, SDK best practices, and security. Key discussions included project transitions, naming conventions, the upcoming Hiero blog, and the formation of a security committee.

## Details

**Organization:** Hiero Technical Steering Committee (TSC)  
**Date:** March 18, 2025  
**Time:** 10AM ET   
**Recording:** [Zoom Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/JcOYj8X4OTfum9zIJ1w6Xfua2qCXHkrzhEbud2hlCQVZgp0FCyYquo-hjCt6woRe.a55Ln_QiS_F6RUdw)

## TSC Attendees

- Alex Popowycz
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Leemon Baird
- Richard Baur
- Stoyan Panayotov

## Guests

- Andrew Brandt
- Roger Barker
- Mark Blackman
- Jessie Ssebuliba
- Diane Mueller
- Mercy Boma
- Brandon Davenport
- Pavel Borisov
- Weija Zhang
- Jessica Gonzalez
- May Chan
- Deepak Rathore
- Rob Walworth
- Nana Essilfie-Conduah
- J.T. Duchamp
- Angelina Ceppaluni

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes 
- Update on project transition (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md)
- Update on election process
- Any other business (AOB)

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy)
and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

<img width="945" alt="Code of Conduct" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3a187bc9-65ae-461e-bb46-7ce0db8e32cf">

## Meeting Summary

- **Repository Transitions**
  - Mirror Node Explorer successfully migrated to Hiero
  - JSON-RPC Relay migration scheduled for this week
  - Community repo Hiero Solo Action added and published on GitHub Marketplace

- **Governance & Elections**
  - TSC election process finalized; nominations encouraged
  - `electors.md` renamed to `adopters.md` for consistency with LF standards

- **Repo Structure & Standards**
  - Discussion underway on how to classify core vs. community repos
  - Branch protection and SDK best practices (naming, testing, vendor-neutral refactoring) in development
  - GitHub discussions will be used for community input

- **Security & Infrastructure**
  - Proposal to form a Security Committee to handle vulnerabilities and tooling
  - Quarterly LF report in progress; shows strong contributor diversity

- **Communication & Outreach**
  - Hiero blog launching soon; Hiero Solo Action likely first post
  - Documentation group working on clear Hedera/Hiero content separation

- **Community Engagement**
  - Open Q&A highlighted interest in interoperability and legacy system integration (e.g. SWIFT APIs)

## Key Decisions

- Rename `electors.md` to `adopters.md` in governance docs for naming consistency.
- Proceed with community repo visualization enhancements.
- Proceed with a GitHub discussion on core vs. community repo governance structures.
- Election process approved and ready for nominations.
- Branch protection rules to be finalized this week for TSC vote next week.
- Proceed with creation of SDK guidelines and metadata repository.
- Security committee proposal will remain open for discussion.

## Action Items

- **Brandon Davenport** to resolve failing DCO check PR by end of week.
- **TSC Members** to review and approve two pending PRs on meeting minutes.
- **Hendrik Ebbers** to create GitHub discussion outlining governance structure options for core vs. community repos.
- **Richard Bair or Hendrik Ebbers** to rename `electors.md` to `adopters.md` today.
- **Jessica Gonzalez** to finalize repo governance rules and prepare for TSC vote next week.
- **TSC Members** to review SDK naming discussion and provide input before next Monday's SDK meeting.
- **Documentation Group** to finalize structure proposal for Hedera vs. Hiero documentation and present to TSC.
- **Jessica Gonzalez** to keep security committee proposal open and seek additional feedback.

---

Prepared by: Brandon Davenport, Dir of Comms, Hgraph
