# Hiero Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting Minutes

**Date:** Tuesday, January 21, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00am ET / 15:00 UTC  
**Zoom Recording Link:** [Access Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/ygvbsiiKtSPCfca8xbiCHIDXl1XOBbhCF1Wk0kL7V603dXZl8U17S15I54nqK5E.4QFwH9gfsPfqsnT8)

## TSC Attendees

- Richard Bair
- Hendrik Ebbers
- Alex Popowycz
- Stoyan Panayotov

## Guests

- Keith Kowal
- Neeharika Sompalli
- Nana Essilfie-Conduah
- Brandon Davenport
- Mark Blackman
- Jessica Gonzalez
- Diane Mueller 

## Code of Conduct

As in every meeting we start with a short notice of the [antitrust policy of Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy)
and an introduction of our [Code of Conduct](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/code-of-conduct).

---

## Meeting Agenda
1. Opening and Administrative Items  
2. Approve previous minutes (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/82 and https://github.com/hiero-ledger/tsc/pull/93) 
3. Project Transition Updates (https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md)
   - Local Node, JavaScript SDK, Swift SDK, Java SDK, Rust SDK  
   - Documentation Repositories and Proto-buf Migration  
4. HIP Discussions  
   - Review of HIP-1068 (https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1068)
   - Review of HIP-1082 (https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/pull/1082)
   - Presentation of HIP-1064 (https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1064) 
5. Renaming “Hedera Services” Repository  
6. Roadmap / Release Schedule Planning (deferred)  
7. Additional Topics  
   - Native Python SDK Transfer  
   - Code Security Best Practices (GitHub Actions & Secrets)  
   - Forming Contributor and Docs SIGs  
   - Future Election Process  
8. Action Items and Next Steps  

### Summary of the Meeting
The committee discussed ongoing repository transitions to the Hiero organization, focusing on licensing checks, documentation, and next steps for migrating additional SDKs. Multiple HIPs were briefly revisited (Sponsored Fees, EVM Address by EOA, Node Rewards), with key items postponed for deeper offline review. The group reached a consensus on renaming “Hedera Services” to “Hiero Consensus Node,” maintaining consistent naming alongside other node implementations. Attendees also considered setting up special interest groups (SIGs) for SDKs, documentation, and HIP reviews to streamline discussions and lighten TSC meeting loads. Some roadmap, release schedule, and election details were deferred to a subsequent session.

---

## Detailed Meeting Minutes

### 1. Opening and Administrative Items
- **Call to Order:** Hendrik Ebbers welcomed participants and confirmed that the meeting is public and open to all.  
- **Quorum Check:** TSC voting members confirmed sufficient attendance to establish a quorum for any motions or votes.  
- **Meeting Governance:** Hendrik reminded attendees that the meeting is conducted under the Linux Foundation antitrust policy and the Code of Conduct of the LF Decentralized Trust initiative.

### 2. Approval of Prior Meeting Minutes
- Hendrik noted that there were two sets of minutes needing final approval.  
- **Action:**  
  - TSC members will review and formally approve the pending minutes via GitHub pull requests.  
  - Minor corrections (e.g., attendee name fixes) have been merged by Brandon Davenport.

### 3. Project Transition Updates
Hendrik Ebbers provided a comprehensive status on migrating Hedera-related repositories into the Hiero organization:

1. **Local Node & JavaScript SDK**  
   - Migration has been completed; the repos are now under Hiero’s GitHub organization.  
   - Pull requests to update Readmes, contributor documents, and licenses are in process.

2. **Swift, Java, and Rust SDKs**  
   - **Swift SDK:** Awaiting merge of a PR that replaces a non-Apache-2.0-licensed dependency. Once merged, it can be transferred.  
   - **Java SDK:** Transfer is expected soon, pending resolution of a small blocking task.  
   - **Rust SDK:** Some license-related issues are being addressed. Transfer may be slightly delayed but targeted for completion in the coming week.

3. **Documentation and Proto-buf**  
   - Hedera Docs and Proto-buf repos remain. The TSC briefly discussed the approach for migrating docs, noting that references to Hedera-specific content may need reorganization once under Hiero.  
   - There is ongoing coordination with Hedera’s documentation team to manage author attributions (DCO sign-offs) and references to specific network resources.  

4. **Future Steps**  
   - The TSC will need to clarify how Hedera’s developer documentation will reference Hiero docs without confusing new developers who search specifically for “Hedera.”  
   - A separate meeting or SIG focused on documentation structure and synergy between Hedera and Hiero is likely.  

### 4. HIP Discussions

#### 4.1 Sponsored Fees HIP
- **Update:** Discussion from the previous meeting highlighted two core items that need resolution:
  1. How the fee allowance is denominated (Hbar vs. gas vs. both).  
  2. Whether transaction fees under the sponsored model should cover “everything” or specifically the fees enumerated in the standard schedule.  
- Attendees deferred an in-depth review to an offline or future session, allowing time to consolidate details and gather additional commentary.

#### 4.2 EVM Address by EOA HIP
- **Overview:** The proposed HIP would allow EOA (Externally Owned Accounts) to set or modify their EVM addresses.  
- **Status:** Discussion remains open, with further clarification needed around certain design decisions. The TSC agreed to handle it in a future meeting once the sponsor (Nana, along with others) has integrated community feedback.

#### 4.3 Node Rewards HIP
- **Presenter:** Neeharika (“Neha”) Sompalli introduced the proposal for a Node Rewards mechanism to incentivize “active” nodes participating in network consensus.  
- **Key Points:**  
  - **Definition of Active Nodes:** Proposed to be based on creating “judges” in the Hashgraph algorithm.  
  - **Minimum Node Reward:** A dynamic property set by governance to ensure operators receive a baseline reward for running consensus infrastructure.  
  - **Optional Reduction by Node Fees:** If a configurable flag is set, node rewards are decreased by some factor of average node fees collected during that period.  
  - **Funding Source:** Typically from the network’s node reward account (e.g., `0.0.801` on Hedera).  
  - **Concerns & Feedback:**  
    - If the reward is fully offset by node fees, there could be a disincentive for nodes to process traffic.  
    - Need clarity on partial offsets, or whether the offset is a 1:1 deduction.  
    - Behavior if reward account lacks sufficient balance was raised (e.g., partial distribution).  
    - Additional discussion with Lehman Baird (author of many original concepts) will be pursued for final clarifications.

### 5. Renaming “Hedera Services” Repository
- Currently, the “Hedera Services” repo contains the core consensus node implementation.  
- The TSC considered whether to rename it to **Hiero Consensus Node** (to align with “block node,” “mirror node,” etc.) or to something else like “Validator Node.”  
- **Decision:** The TSC agreed that “Hiero Consensus Node” is the clearest, most consistent naming. A future rebranding could occur if needed, but for now, “Hiero Consensus Node” is approved.

### 6. Roadmap / Release Schedule Planning
- Diane Mueller requested an updated conversation on forming a more formal release schedule and roadmap.  
- **Deferred:** Due to time constraints, the TSC opted to revisit the roadmap and scheduling discussion at the next meeting.  

### 7. Additional Topics

#### 7.1 Native Python SDK Transfer
- TSC previously voted to accept the native Python SDK into Hiero.  
- Hendrik acknowledged a short delay due to ensuring best practices for security (e.g., GitHub Action secrets, tokens) are clearly documented before the transfer.  
- **Action:** Hendrik will collaborate with Hedera/Hashgraph DevOps and create a new issue describing recommended repository security steps so future transitions are safe and consistent.

#### 7.2 Code Security Best Practices
- Concern was raised about automatically enabling GitHub Actions in newly transferred repos without verifying proper security settings and secret management.  
- The TSC agreed an issue should be opened with guidelines or a checklist to ensure each Hiero repo meets minimal security standards, including how secrets (e.g., Maven or npm tokens) are protected.

#### 7.3 Forming SIGs (Special Interest Groups)
- **SDK Contributor SIG:** With multiple SDks moving under Hiero and new contributors arriving, Hendrik proposed forming a regular meeting or SIG to coordinate developer efforts, share knowledge, and unify contributions.  
- **Docs SIG:** A dedicated group to address the complexities of integrated Hiero/Hedera documentation strategies, structure, and branding.  
- **HIP Review SIG:** Could expedite detailed discussions of complex HIPs before they come to the TSC for final consideration.  

#### 7.4 Future Election Process
- Richard Bair mentioned a draft detailing processes for upcoming TSC elections to fill the remaining seats.  
- This documentation will be shared at the next meeting, outlining the approach and timeline for nominations and voting.

### 8. Action Items and Next Steps
- **Minutes Approval:** TSC members to finalize pending meeting minutes PRs.  
- **Repo Transfers:**
  - Swift, Java, Rust SDKs to be completed once licensing and dependency issues are resolved.  
  - Hedera Docs & Proto-buf: Prepare plan for partial or full transfer, plus clarity on references to Hedera resources.  
  - Native Python SDK: Wait on final security best practices document.  
- **Node Rewards HIP:** Follow up with Dr. Leeman Baird for clarifications on reward offsets. Neha to update the HIP text accordingly.  
- **Renaming Repo:** “Hedera Services” → “Hiero Consensus Node” upon transfer.  
- **Roadmap Discussion:** Rescheduled to the next TSC meeting.  
- **SIG Formation:** Begin planning or scheduling sessions for SDK, Docs, and HIP Review SIGs.  
- **Election Process:** Richard Bair to publish draft election guidelines for TSC feedback.

---

**Prepared by:**  
Brandon Davenport, Director of Communications, Hgraph